Vaccines and immunization
Skip to main content
Overview
Immunization is a global health success story, saving millions of lives every year. Vaccines reduce risks of getting a disease by working with your body’s natural defenses to build protection. When you get a vaccine, your immune system responds.
We now have vaccines to prevent more than 30 life-threatening diseases and infections, helping people of all ages live longer, healthier lives. Immunization currently prevents 3.5 million to 5 million deaths every year from diseases like diphtheria, tetanus, pertussis (whooping cough), influenza and measles.
Immunization is key to primary health care, an indisputable human right, and one of the best health investments money can buy. Vaccines are also critical to the prevention and control of infectious disease outbreaks. They underpin global health security and are a vital tool in the battle against antimicrobial resistance.
The COVID-19 pandemic strained health systems, resulting in dramatic setbacks. The most recent data for diphtheria-pertussis-tetanus (DTP) immunization coverage underscores the need for ongoing catch-up, recovery and system-strengthening.
Measles, because of its high transmissibility, quickly exposes immunity. In 2024, the routine first dose of measles vaccine was missed by 20.6 million children – far from the 2019 level of 19.3 million children.
Impact
Vaccines train your immune system to create antibodies, just as it does when it’s exposed to a disease. However, because vaccines contain only killed or weakened forms of germs like viruses or bacteria, they do not cause the disease or put you at risk of its complications.
Vaccines protect against many different diseases
, including:
cervical cancer
cholera
COVID-19
dengue
diphtheria
Ebola
hepatitis B
influenza
Japanese encephalitis
malaria
measles
meningitis
mpox
mumps
pertussis
pneumonia
polio
rabies
rotavirus
rubella
tetanus
typhoid
varicella
yellow fever
Not all these vaccinations may be needed in your country. Some may only be given prior to travel, in areas of risk, or to people in high-risk occupations. Talk to your health-care provider to find out what vaccinations are needed for you and your family.
WHO response
WHO is working with countries and partners to improve global vaccination coverage, including through these initiatives adopted by the World Health Assembly in August 2020.
Immunization Agenda 2030
IA2030 sets an ambitious, overarching global vision and strategy for vaccines and immunization for the decade 2021–2030. It was co-created with thousands of contributions from countries and organizations around the world. It draws on lessons from the past decade and acknowledges continuing and new challenges posed by infectious diseases (e.g. Ebola, COVID-19).
The strategy has been designed to respond to the interests of every country and intends to inspire and align the activities of community, national, regional and global stakeholders towards achieving a world where everyone, everywhere fully benefits from vaccines for good health and well-being. IA2030 is operationalized through regional and national strategies and a mechanism to ensure ownership and accountability and a monitoring and evaluation framework to guide country implementation.
Immunization Agenda 2030: A Global Strategy to Leave No One Behind
Implementing the Immunization Agenda 2030: A Framework for Action
Fact sheets
Immunization coverage
Cholera
Cervical cancer
Influenza (seasonal)
Malaria
Measles
Poliomyelitis
Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
Rubella
Yellow fever
Questions and answers
WHO/UNICEF estimates of national immunization coverage
Vaccines and immunization: Vaccine safety
Vaccines and immunization: What is vaccination?
How can I avoid getting the flu?
Databases and tools
Global Health Observatory – Immunization coverage
Vaccine-preventable disease country profiles
Vaccination Information Hub
Resolutions and decisions
WHA65.17 Global Vaccine Action Plan
WHA65.18 World Immunization Week
WHA68.6 Global Vaccine Action Plan
WHA70.14 Strengthening immunization to achieve the goals of the global vaccine action plan
Initiatives and groups
Strategic Advisory Group of Experts (SAGE)
Malaria Vaccine Implementation Programme (MVIP)
Technical work
Department of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals
News
All →
30 June 2026
Departmental update
Countries pave the way for stronger local production and health sovereignty
23 June 2026
Departmental update
African countries convene to prepare for future rollout of new TB vaccines for adults and adolescents
12 June 2026
Departmental update
Call for public consultation – WHO’s Procedure for prequalification of vaccines
10 June 2026
Departmental update
WHO convenes global biomanufacturing partners to advance workforce development and local production
Latest publications
All →
2 July 2026
Regional Consultation on Vaccine and Immunization Research Preparedness for Vaccine Preventable Disease...
COVID-19 revealed that the Region’s challenge was not vaccine development speed, but
the timely generation of context-specific evidence on effectiveness,...
Download
Read More
29 May 2026
Meeting of the Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on
Immunization, March 2026: conclusions and recommendations
The report from the WHO Department of Immunization, Vaccines and Biologicals (IVB)
provided an overview of the current global immunization context. It...
Download
Read More
28 May 2026
WHO Technical Advisory Group on candidate vaccine prioritization: meeting report, 19 and 25 May 2026
This meeting report summarizes the deliberations and recommendations of the WHO Technical Advisory Group on Candidate Vaccine Prioritization (TAG-CVP)...
Download
Read More
28 May 2026
WHO emergency guidance on the use of licensed Ebola virus vaccine during Bundibugyo virus disease outbreaks,...
This emergency guidance document outlines the World Health Organization (WHO) position on the use of the licensed Ebola virus vaccine Ervebo® during...
Download
Read More
Our work
Preparing and preventing epidemics and pandemics
Immunizing against HPV
Feature stories
All →
22 April 2026
Five tips for preparing children for vaccination
4 December 2025
Why childhood immunization schedules matter
30 October 2025
WHO: sustaining health services in Somalia amid unprecedented funding challenges
4 September 2025
What's in a vaccine?
Infographics
All →
Infographic
Countries with COVID-19 vaccination as 2025
Infographic
Malaria Vaccines (RTS,S/AS01 and R21/Matrix-M) infographic, January 2026
Infographic
Risk/Benefit considerations when deciding on CTC
Infographic
What is a Controlled Temperature Chain (CTC)?
Videos
All →
19 March 2026
Yours daily dose: Vaccines are your ally in staying healthy
23 July 2025
WHO press conference on global health issues – 23 July 2025
2 July 2025
The Power of the HPV Vaccine - Manar's story
14 May 2025
Sudan: Malaria vaccination in times of conflict
Podcasts
Episode #138 – The truth about vaccine safety
Are vaccines safe? What’s actually in them? In this 2-part episode of Science in 5, WHO’s Dr Kate O’Brien breaks down how vaccines are tested, approved, and monitored even after they reach the public. She also explains what happens if a safety concern is flagged.
Episode #137 - Vaccines: science vs. scare
Should kids just “get the disease” instead of being vaccinated? Can vaccines really overwhelm a child’s immune system? Who decides what vaccines we get—and why? If you’re a new parent with questions about vaccines, you’re not alone. In this 2-part episode of Science in 5, WHO’s Dr. Kate O’Brien breaks down the science behind childhood vaccinations, the importance of the schedule, and the truth behind common concerns.
Episode #70 - Upcoming new vaccines
What are the new vaccines in the pipeline? What are the challenges to turning vaccines into vaccination ? What timelines can we expect for future vaccines? WHO’s Dr Katherine O’Brien explains in Science in 5.
Episode #67 - Understanding immunity
WHO’s Chief Scientist Dr Soumya Swaminathan explains how our body develops immunity against a new virus. How is immunity developed when we are infected with SARS-CoV-2 virus? How is it different from vaccine derived immunity? Why is it important to continue to wear masks, ventilate closed spaces, avoid crowds, wash hands and observe all other precautions?
Spotlights
History of vaccination
Vaccines have saved more human lives than any other medical invention in history. Read about how in the last millennium these extraordinary discoveries and achievements have changed our lives.
Campaigns
World Immunization Week
World Immunization Week, celebrated in the last week of April, aims to highlight the collective action needed and to promote the use of vaccines to protect people of all ages against disease.
Events
All →
9 July 2026 12:00 – 15:00 UTC Time
Seventh meeting of the Market Access for Vaccines Technical Advisory Group
15 July 2026 13:00 – 16:30 UTC Time
WHO and UNICEF Estimates of National Immunization Coverage (WUENIC) 2025 Results Webinar
3 August – 13 September 2026
Global youth competition on influenza and COVID-19 prevention and control
5 – 8 October 2026
Strategic Advisory Group of Experts on Immunization (SAGE) - October 2026
Related health topics
Non-communicable diseases
Cervical cancer
Diseases and conditions
Cholera
Communicable diseases
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19)
Diseases and conditions
Dengue and severe dengue
Communicable diseases
Diphtheria
Communicable diseases
Hepatitis
Diseases and conditions
Influenza (seasonal)
Diseases and conditions
Malaria
Diseases and conditions
Measles
Communicable diseases
Meningitis
Diseases and conditions
Pertussis
Diseases and conditions
Pneumonia
Diseases and conditions
Poliomyelitis (polio)
Diseases and conditions
Rabies
Diseases and conditions
Tick-borne encephalitis
Diseases and conditions
Tuberculosis
Diseases and conditions
Typhoid
Diseases and conditions
Yellow fever