Transfer of Property Act, 1882 - Wikipedia
Jump to content
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Transfer of property right in India
This article
may be too technical for most readers to understand
.
Please
help improve it
to
make it understandable to non-experts
, without removing the technical details.
(
July 2013
)
(
Learn how and when to remove this message
)
Transfer of Property Act, 1882
Imperial Legislative Council
Long title
An Act to amend the law relating to the Transfer of Property by act of parties.
Citation
Act No. 4 of 1882
Territorial extent
Union of
India
Enacted
17 February 1882
Commenced
1 July 1882
Legislative history
Introduced by
Whitley Stokes
First reading
1877
Second reading
1882
Status:
In force
The
Transfer of Property Act, 1882
is an Indian legislation which regulates the
transfer of property
in India. It contains specific provisions regarding what constitutes a transfer and the conditions attached to it. It came into force on 1 July 1882.
According to the Act, 'transfer of property' means an act by which a person conveys the property to one or more persons, or himself and one or more other persons. The act of transfer may be done in the present or for the future. The person may include an individual, company or association or body of individuals, and any kind of property may be transferred, including the transfer of immovable property.
Interpretation of "property"
[
edit
]
Property is broadly classified into the following categories:
Immovable Property (excluding standing timber, growing crops, and grass)
Movable Property (such as watches, timbers)
The Interpretation of the Act, says "
Immovable property
does not include standing timber, growing crops or grass". Section 3(26) of the General Clauses Act, 1897 states that " immovable property" shall include land, benefits to arise out of the land, and things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth. A similar definition is provided by the Registration Act, 1908 under section 2(6):
"immovable property" includes land, buildings, hereditary allowances, rights to ways, lights, ferries, fisheries or any other benefit to arise out of the land, and things attached to the earth or permanently fastened to anything which is attached to the earth, but not standing timber, growing crops nor grass.
A transfer of property passes forthwith to the transferee all the interest which the transferor is then capable of passing in the property unless a different intention is expressed or implied.
According to Section 43 of the Transfer of Property Act 1882, in case a person either fraudulently or erroneously represents that he is authorized to transfer certain immovable property and does some acts to transfer such property for
consideration
, then such a transfer will continue to operate in future. It will operate on any interest which the transferor may acquire in such property.
This will be at the option of the transferee and can be done during the time during which the contract of transfer exists. As per this rule, the rights of the bona fide transferee, who has no notice of the earlier transfer or of the option, are protected. This rule embodies a rule of
estoppel
i.e. a person who makes a representation cannot later on go against it.
Every person, who is
competent to contract
, is competent to transfer property, which can be transferred in whole or in part. He should be entitled to the transferable property, or authorized to dispose of transferable property which is not his own. The right may be either absolute or conditional, and the property may be movable or immovable, present or future. Such a transfer can be made orally unless a transfer in writing is specifically required under any law.
Even when a person is mentally competent, but physically unable to sign any contract, the
property lawyer
hired by him, can do that with the help of a
power of attorney
.
According to Section 6 of the Transfer of Property Act, the property of any kind may be transferred. The person insisting non-transferability must prove the existence of some law or custom which restricts the right of transfer. Unless there is some legal restriction preventing the transfer, the owner of the property may transfer it. However, in some cases, there may be a transfer of property by an unauthorized person who subsequently acquires an interest in such property.
In case the property is transferred subject to the condition which absolutely restrains the transferee from parting with or disposing of his interest in the property, the condition is void. The only exception is in the case of a lease where the condition is for the benefit of the lessor or those claiming under him. Generally, only the person having interest in the property is authorized to transfer his interest in the property and can pass on the proper title to any other person.
The rights of the transferees will not be adversely affected, provided: they acted in good faith; the property was acquired for a consideration, and the transferees had acted without notice of the defect in the title of the transferor.
These conditions must be satisfied
:
There must be a representation by the transferor that he has authority to transfer the immovable property. The representation shouldn't be either fraudulent or erroneous. The transferee must act on the representation in good faith. The transfer should be done for a consideration. The transferor should subsequently acquire some interest in the property he had agreed to transfer. The transferee may have the option to acquire the interest which the transferor subsequently acquires.
Related legislation
[
edit
]
There are 18 other statutes that are primarily concerned with Property Law, or significantly matter to Property Law, as listed below:
[
1
]
Trusts Act, 1882
Specific Relief Act, 1908
Easements Act, 1882
Registration Act, 1908
Stamp Act, 1899
U.P. Stamp Act, 2008
Limitation Act, 1963
General Clauses Act, 1897
Evidence Act, 1872
Succession Act, 1925
Partition Act, 1893
Presidency-Towns Insolvency Act, 1909
Provincial Insolvency Act, 1920
Recovery of Debts Due to Banks and Financial Institutions Act, 1993
Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
Security Interest
act, 2002
Contract Act, 1872
Sale of Goods Act, 1930
Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881
Enemy Property Act.
References
[
edit
]
↑
Sumeet Malik.
Property Law Manual
(Hard Bound) (2014
ed.). Eastern Book Company. pp.
1–
968.
ISBN
9789351451150
.
External links
[
edit
]
Text of the Transfer of Property Act 1882
Transfer of Property Act, 1882: Complete Guide & Module Overview
Retrieved from "
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Transfer_of_Property_Act,_1882&oldid=1357855533
"
Categories
:
Acts of the Imperial Legislative Council
Property law in India
1882 in law
1882 in India
1882 in British law
Hidden categories:
Articles with short description
Short description is different from Wikidata
Use dmy dates from September 2015
Use Indian English from September 2015
All Wikipedia articles written in Indian English
Wikipedia articles that are too technical from July 2013
All articles that are too technical
Search
Search
Transfer of Property Act, 1882
3 languages
Add topic