Terms of Use | Vi
Prepaid
Postpaid
New Connection
International Roaming
5G
OTTs & More
Help
DND & Service Quality
SKYC-Reverification
Business
Investors
Vodafone Idea Limited
Vodafone Idea Limited, a partnership between the Aditya Birla Group & Vodafone Group, provides pan-India voice and data services using the latest communication technologies
about Vi
About Us
Vodafone Idea Corp
Vi Foundation
Vodafone Group
Aditya Birla Group
Investor Relations
News & Media
Career
Vi App
Vi Stores Near Me
Vi Business
Home Broadband
GIGAnet
Vi VoLTE
Go Green
eSIM
WiFi Calling
5G
Blog
more from Vi
Postpaid Connection
Prepaid Connection
Port Number to Vi / MNP
Free SIM Delivery
Track your SIM Delivery
Fancy Number
Individual Plans
Family Plans
Prepaid to Postpaid
Best Postpaid Plans
Best Prepaid Packs
Hero Unlimited Packs
Unlimited Packs
Talktime Packs
Data Packs
SMS Packs
Caller Tunes Packs
Value Added Services
Service Validity Packs
JioHotstar Packs
Amazon Prime Packs
Sony LIV Packs
Online Recharge
Postpaid Bill Payment
Vi Shop - Seller Portal
Vi Video Vault
explore on Vi app
Vi Games
Vi Movies & TV
Vi Hero Unlimited
Vi WiFi Calling
International Roaming
Callertunes
Order Prepaid SIM
Order Postpaid SIM
Order VIP Number
Port to Vi
Recharge for Self/Others
Pay Bill for Self/Others
Cashback Offers
Help & Support
My Account
Vi Shop
Vi Prepaid Autopay
regulatory & quick access
Telemarketing Registration
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Notices
Prepaid TRAI mandate
Postpaid TRAI mandate
Warning & Fraudulent
Security Awareness
DND Complaints
DND Registration
Disaster Management
Responsible Disclosure Policy
Network Coverage
Register for Online Refund
Network Troubleshooting
Block SIM Online
UPI Recharge
Postpaid ISD Call Rates
Prepaid ISD Call Rates
Mobile Internet
Sitemap
VIBSL
Terms & Conditions - Prepaid
This website uses own third-party cookies.Find out more about usage in our
Privacy Policy
page.  Copyright Reserved with Vodafone Idea Limited (formerly Idea Cellular Limited).
Vodafone Idea Limited (Formerly Idea Cellular Limited),  An Aditya Birla Group & Vodafone partnership, Suman Towers, Plot No.18, Sector 11, Gandhinagar – 382011, Gujarat.CIN L32100GJ1996PLC030976, T: +91-79 6671 4000, F: +91-79 2323 2251
Terms and Conditions of Service
THIS DOCUMENT IS AN ELECTRONIC RECORD IN TERMS OF THE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACT, 2000 AND RULES THERE UNDER AS APPLICABLE AND AMENDED OR MODIFIED FROM TIME TO TIME. THIS ELECTRONIC RECORD IS GENERATED BY A COMPUTER SYSTEM AND DOES NOT REQUIRE ANY PHYSICAL OR DIGITAL SIGNATURES.
For the purposes of these terms and conditions, wherever the context so requires “You” or “Your” shall mean any natural person accessing this website www.myvi.in(or “Site”), its contents and or using the services offered through this Site and shall also include a subscriber of telecommunication services of VIL.
For the purposes of these terms and conditions, wherever the context so requires “Company”, “we”, “us” or “our” shall mean Vodafone Idea Limited (“VIL”) or Vi having its registered office at Suman Tower, Plot No. 18, Sector –11, Gandhinagar –382 011, Gujarat and its successors and assigns.
This page contains the terms and conditions concerning Your use of the Site. By accessing, browsing and /or using this Site, You agree to be bound by the following terms and conditions as may be amended from time to time. You agree that the following terms and conditions shall apply in conjunction with Customer Agreement Form (CAF) or any other document signed by You in this regard. These terms and conditions include additional terms and policies which are referenced elsewhere in this document. If You do not agree to these terms, please do not access the Site or avail any service through the Site.
Terms and Conditions:
A. YOUR INFORMATION AND PRIVACY:
By accessing or using www.myvi.in, You confirm that You have read understood and agreed to conform to these terms and conditions; You also warrant the accuracy, truthfulness and currency of all information that You have submitted while accessing or using www.myvi.in. If You provide any information which is or we have reasonable grounds to suspect that the information is untrue or incorrect, Company may reserve right to suspend or terminate Your access to the Site.
In a few areas of Site (including but not limited to the registration page) we may ask You to provide personal information and for this purpose, You permit us to contact you, if necessary, on the MSISDN provided by you. This allows us to provide and inform You of the latest services and features that most likely meet Your needs, and to customize our Site to make Your experience safer and easier and will enable us to use the information You provide us with to keep You informed of our latest products and services after Your visit to www.myvi.in. Your personal information will be used in accordance with the privacy policy available at www.myvi.in
.
Access to Site shall be restricted. Only users with login passwords can access the Site. The user identity shall be provided by the Company while the user shall define the login password, which shall be encrypted and stored on the Site server. We strongly recommend that the password be retained confidential. The password is an authentication tool and we recommend that each User periodically changes the password. You shall remain solely responsible for maintaining confidentiality of Your username, password or account details which You have created for availing services through www.myvi.in
.
You agree to immediately notify the Company of any unauthorized use of Your password or account or any other security breach.
You agree that we may collect certain non-personally identifiable information about our visitors when You visit our Site. We use the non-personally identifiable information that we collect to improve the design and content of our service pages and to enable us to personalize Your Internet experience. We also may use this information in the aggregate to analyse service usage.
Company may rely on the authority of anyone accessing Your account using Your password and You agree that Company has no responsibility and liability with regard to the privacy, safety and security of any information (including personal information) that You may share voluntarily with third parties for availing their products or services, through the Site or any compromise of the confidentiality of Your account/ password or any authorized access to Your account/password.
B. TECHNICAL REQUIREMENT:
If Your PC does not support relevant technology including but not limited to encryption You may not be able to use certain services or access certain information on the Site. You are therefore advised to obtain, install and maintain suitable equipment and software to access the Site. You agree that You are solely responsible for the security of Your computer or password or Your data. Company is not responsible for the back up or restoration of Your data/material.
Your use of contents:
The content (information, communications, images, logos, trade names / trademarks, videos and sounds contained on or available through Site) is provided by VIL, its affiliates, independent content providers and third parties. The contents available on the Site are properties of VIL, its affiliates, independent content providers or third parties. All rights reserved. The contents of the Site cannot be reproduced, modified, transferred, distributed, republished, downloaded, posted or transmitted in any form or by any means including but not limited to electronic, mechanical photocopying or recording without the prior written permission of VIL. You agree that the material and content contained within or provided by the Site is permitted for Your own personal use only and may not be used for commercial purposes or distributed commercially. You may use the content for Your personal use, provided You retain all copyright and proprietary notices on the content. You will not use the Site and its content in any way which has an unlawful or fraudulent purpose or effect. The Company reserves the right to charge for access to certain information on www.myvi.in. Vodafone Idea Limited will inform You where a charge will be incurred by You for accessing certain services or information on www.myvi.in.
The Company shall not assume or accept any responsibility or liability for the contents which are made available by independent content providers or third parties on the Site or any other website linked with www.myvi.in. You agree to access and / or avail such contents at Your own risk, responsibility and liability
.
By submitting/posting any material to us via the Site, via email or otherwise, You grant us a perpetual, royalty free and irrevocable license to copy, modify, distribute or create a derivative work from that material  in any form. You warrant that the material is fit for publication, You own all rights with respect to Your material and You agree to indemnify us if any third party takes action against us in relation to the material that You submit. You warrant that You believe the Company may publish the material You submit and/or make use of it or any concepts described in it in our products or services without liability and You agree not to take action against us in relation to it. Company does not guarantee the accuracy, integrity or quality of such material. Company does not endorse any advice or recommendation or suggestion posted through the material. Company shall have the right but not the obligation to monitor the posting/material to determine compliance with these terms and conditions and applicable laws. Company reserves the right to edit the material or remove the material at its discretion without any notice.
C. NO WARRANTY:
While the Company shall make all reasonable efforts to update or correct any information that appears on this Site, we do not make any representation or warranty (expressed or implied) in relation to or in any way guarantee the accuracy of information available on the Site at any given time or make any representation or warranty with regards to merchantability, title, fitness for a purpose or non-infringement. Company would not be responsible for any misinformation, inconvenience, loss or financial or other damage caused to You due to the use of this Site. Information is supplied upon the condition that the persons receiving the same will make their own determination as to its suitability for their purposes prior to its use or in connection with the making of any decision using such information. Any use of this Site or the information available on this Site is at Your own risk. Neither the Company and its affiliates, nor their directors, officers, employees or agents shall be liable for any loss, damage or expense arising out of any access to, use of, or reliance upon, this Site or the information and Content available on this Site, or any website linked to this Site. The Site including the content or information therein is provided on “
as is basis
”.
The Site may contain forward looking statement or projections. They are made on reasonable assumptions and are subject to various risks, uncertainties and factors that could cause actual outcome/results to be materially different.
The Company shall use all reasonable care to maintain the Site in a fully operating condition. It is not responsible for the results of any defects that may exist in the Site. No warranties are given that Site or its content will be uninterrupted or virus free or error free or that it will be suitable for the particular purpose that You have in mind when using it. The Company does not accept responsibility for any defects that may exist or for any costs, loss of profits, loss of data, or consequential losses arising from Your use of, or inability to use or access or a failure, suspension or withdrawal of all or part of the service at any time. It is a condition of the Company for allowing You access to the information on Site that You accept that the Company will not be liable for any action You take relying on the information on www.myvi.in. If Your use of materials or information from Site results in the need for servicing, repair or correction of equipment or data or You assume any costs relating to the above, we would not be liable for the same.
This Site may be linked to other websites on the World Wide Web that are not under the control of or maintained by the Company. Such links do not indicate any responsibility or endorsement on our part for the concerned external website, its contents or the links displayed on it. These links are provided only as a convenience, in order to help You find relevant websites, services and/or products that may be of interest to you, quickly and easily. The Company makes no representations or warranties, express or implied, concerning any products, services, content or information found on any linked websites. The access to these websites is at Your risk. The Company is not responsible for any errors, omissions or representations on any of our pages or on any links on any of their pages.  Company is not responsible for the data collection activities of these websites. You are requested to verify the accuracy of all information on Your own before undertaking any reliance and consult the terms and conditions of the relevant website. It is Your responsibility to decide whether any services and/or products available through any of these websites are suitable for Your purposes. We do not endorse or recommend the products or services offered through these websites. The Company informs You that it is not responsible for any transactional errors, misinformation and frauds taking place on those sites.
D. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS:
Vi and any other Company product or service names referred to on the Site are trademarks of VIL. Your access to the Site or use thereof shall not grant in Your favour, by implication, estoppel or otherwise, any license, right, title or interest to use any marks appearing on the Site without the prior written consent of the Company or the third party owner thereof.
By accessing or using www.myvi.in, You confirm to acknowledge and abide by all intellectual and industrial property rights, including copyrights or trademarks belonging to Merged Co or to any third party content licensor to Merged Co that is made available through the Site.
This Site may contain factual references to the names of certain companies, products and individuals. VIL makes no representation of having a business relationship or tie up with any such companies, products or individuals. All trade names shall continue to remain owned by their respective owners.
E. DISCLAIMERS:
You agree that this Site is a platform which is being provided purely on a “best endeavour” basis and subject to acceptance of these Terms and Conditions. Your access or use of the Site is voluntary and You expressly agree to access Site at Your sole risk. The Company shall not be responsible or liable for any loss, injury or any other liability (financial or otherwise) to any user arising due to access or use of www.myvi.in.
The service is accessed via the World Wide Web which is independent of the Site and the Company
.
Your use of the World Wide Web is solely at Your own risk and subject to all applicable national and international laws and regulations. The Company has no responsibility for any information or service obtained by You on the World Wide Web.
In Your use of the Site, You may enter into correspondence with, purchase contents, goods and/or services from, or participate in promotions by advertisers or members or sponsors of the Site. Unless otherwise stated, any such correspondence, advertisement, purchase or promotion, including the delivery of and the payment for goods and/or services, and any other terms, conditions, warranty or representation associated with such correspondence, purchase or promotion, is solely between You and the concerned third party and the contract so entered into is strictly a bipartite contract. While Company shall take all reasonable care in arranging for such third parties, the Company does not guarantee or otherwise assure quality or timeliness of the services or performance otherwise of/by any such third party. We do not guarantee that the third parties will perform any of the transactions entered into on this Site. You agree that The Company has no liability, obligation or responsibility whatsoever for any such correspondence, purchase or promotion between You and any such third party. You shall independently agree upon the manner and terms and conditions of delivery, payment, insurance etc. with the other registered users/third parties that You transact with.
The Site is a secure website and the Company will take all reasonable steps to maintain the Site as a secure website. However even secure websites are susceptible to infiltration and/or corruption. There are a number of transactional facilities on www.myvi.in, wherein You can pay Your bills, or get certain services activated by paying the requisite amount online. Except for the payment facilities available through the Site, the provision of services is governed by the relevant service contract or CAF. The Company would not in any way be responsible for any damage or loss caused to You as a result of financial transaction on the Site. The Company would also not be responsible or liable in any manner if Your credit card / net banking is misused / used fraudulently while being used on the Site. VIL would not be responsible or liable in any manner for any error or defects that may exist or for any costs, loss of profits or consequential losses that may arise from Your use of or inability to use, or access or a failure, suspension or withdrawal of all or part of the facilities available through the Site at any time. The Company accepts no liability or responsibility for loss of data or breach of confidentiality or other consequences howsoever occurring. In case there has to be a reversal of money paid online, it would be entirely dependent on the payment gateway's terms and conditions and the Company would not be responsible or liable in any manner for quick reversal or for expediting the process.
F. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY:
In no event VIL including its affiliates, directors, officers, agents, employees shall be liable for any loss or damage whatsoever including not limited to direct, indirect, punitive, incidental and consequential damages, loss of profit, loss of data, loss of goodwill resulting from the use or inability to use the Site whether based on warranty, contract, tort or in any other means or action.
The Company, to the fullest extent permitted by law, disclaims all warranties and liability related to Your access or use of the Site. Recognizing the special circumstances relating to the Site You agree to waive as against the Company, its affiliates, officers and employees, to the fullest extent permissible by law, any claims including for loss of business howsoever arising from or relating to the use of the Site. Without prejudice to the above the Company's maximum liability, if any, is restricted to the transaction fees paid to VIL by You in respect of the relevant service.
G. INDEMNITY:
You shall indemnify and keep indemnified the Company and its officers, directors, employees, customers, affiliates, agents and licensors harmless from and against any and all claims (including third party claim), losses, suits, proceedings, action, liabilities, damages, expenses and costs (including attorney’s fees and court costs) which the Company may incur, pay or become responsible for as a result of breach or alleged breach of Your representations or obligations under the Terms and Conditions, any failure by You to comply with applicable law, breach of privacy, defamation, infringement of intellectual property rights of the Company and any third party claim in respect of misuse of any information of a third party. VIL shall have the right to defend itself, pursuant to this Clause, subject to Your indemnification. These indemnity obligations will survive termination of Your relationship with Company or You ceasing to use the Site.
H. RESTRICTIONS ON USAGE:
You agree not to cause, nor knowingly allow others to cause, any nuisance, annoyance, or inconvenience, whether to the Company or any of its customers or users of the Site by any means. You will not use the Site such that You would cause the whole or part of the Site to be interrupted, damaged, or rendered less efficient or impaired in any way. In our efforts to promote good citizenship within the Internet community, if we become aware of inappropriate use of the Site or any of its services, the Company will respond in any way that, in its sole discretion, it deems appropriate, in accordance with applicable law. You are prohibited from probing / testing / violating the security of  the Site or attempting to including, without limitation (i) accessing data not intended for You or logging into a service or account which You are not authorized to access, (ii) attempting to probe, scan or test the vulnerability of a system or network or to breach security or authentication measurers, (iii) attempting to interfere with service to any user, host or network including, without limitation, via means of submitting a virus or "trojan horse", overloading, "flooding", "mail bombing" or "crashing" or (iv) sending unsolicited electronic mail including, promotions and / or advertising of other products or services.
You may not mirror any material contained on the Site on any other server without the prior written consent of the Company. Any unauthorised use of the contents of the Site may be in breach of copyright laws or trademark laws.
In accordance with the provisions of Rule 3 (1) (b) of the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 (“Rules”), You agree that You shall not host, display, upload, modify, publish, transmit, store, update or share any information on the Site that
(i)  belongs to another person and to which You do not have any right;
(ii) is obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, invasive of another’s privacy including bodily privacy, insulting or harassing on the basis of gender, racially or ethnically objectionable, relating or encouraging money laundering or gambling, or an online game that causes user harm, or promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion or caste with the intent to incite violence;
(iii)  is harmful to child;
(iv)   infringes any patent, trademark, copyright or other proprietary rights;
(v)  deceives or misleads the addressee about the origin of the message or knowingly and intentionally communicates any misinformation or information which is patently false and untrue or misleading in nature or, in respect of any business of the Central Government, is identified as fake or false or misleading by such fact check unit of the Central Government as the Ministry of Electronics & IT may, by notification, specify;
(vi)  impersonates another person;
(vii)  threatens the unity, integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India, friendly relations with foreign States, or public order, or causes incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting other nation;
(viii)  contains software virus or any other computer code, file or program designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource;
(ix)  is in the nature of an online game that is not verified as a permissible online game;
(x)   is in the nature of advertisement or surrogate advertisement or promotion of an online game that is not a permissible online game, or of any online gaming intermediary offering such an online game;
(xi)  violates any law for the time being in force;
I. SUSPENSION OR MODIFICATIONS OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS:
You accept and agree that the Company may suspend or vary the whole or any part of the Site for any reason, at any time at its sole discretion without prior notice. The Company hereby reserves the right to make subsequent changes to, the Site or its content and services may be modified, varied, supplemented or withdrawn, if so required in view of business exigencies and/or guidelines issued / amended by TRAI, Department of Telecom (DOT) and/or statutory changes and the same shall be binding on you. Such variations etc. will be deemed effective and in force immediately upon posting of the varied terms on the Site. You are therefore advised to check this Site regularly for any update(s) or amendment(s) made to these Terms and Conditions and in the event the modified or amended terms and conditions are not acceptable to You, You should discontinue accessing the Site. Your continued usage of the Site in any manner will constitute Your acceptance of the latest revised terms and conditions. These terms and conditions along with separate written or electronic contract if any between You and Company constitutes the complete agreement between You and Company. The failure to exercise or enforce any provision shall not be deemed as waiver of that provision. If any provisions of these terms and conditions is held to be void or unlawful, it shall not affect the validity of the balance provisions. Company may assign its rights and obligations herein any time without notice to you.  Your rights and obligations are not assignable without our consent.
J. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION:
These terms and conditions are governed in accordance with the laws of India. Any dispute shall be subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of courts in Mumbai.
K. GRIEVANCE OFFICER
In case you would like to raise a complaint with regard to violation of Rule 3 (1) (b) of the Information Technology (Intermediaries Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules 2021 (“Rules”), please note the following :
Immediately contact the Grievance Officer in the following manner :
By sending an email identifying the content alleged to be in infringement of your rights as the rightful owner or affecting you prejudicially;
Providing your contact information including email, address, and telephone number where you can be contacted if required.
Giving a declaration cum undertaking along with necessary documents establishing you (i) as the rightful owner of the content to be disabled/ affecting you prejudicially, (ii) as an affected person, stating that the information submitted is true, complete & accurate and no material fact has been hidden, and also stating that VIL, its Affiliates, Directors, employees, including Grievance Officer shall not be liable for any loss or damage or claim for relaying on such requests.
Please note that :
in absence of any of the above details, we shall not be able to take cognizance of the complaint/grievance.
we shall not be able to address any complaint that does not relate to Rule 3(1) (b) of the Rules. If you have any complaints/grievances w.r.t telecommunication services of VIL, please reach out to Vi Customer Care (refer :
Vi Customer Care
).
your complaint/grievance pertaining to Rule 3(1) (b) of the Rules will be acknowledged and addressed in accordance with the Rules.
Grievance Officer
Name – Rahul Gupta
Email –
grievanceofficer@vodafoneidea.com
Home
Terms of Use