Conditions of Use - Amazon Customer Service
Skip to
Main content
Keyboard shortcuts
Search
alt
+
/
Cart
shift
+
alt
+
C
Home
shift
+
alt
+
H
Orders
shift
+
alt
+
O
Show/Hide shortcuts
shift
+
alt
+
Z
To move between items, use your keyboard's up or down arrows.
.in
Delivering to Chennai 600001
Update location
All
Select the department you want to search in
All Categories
Alexa Skills
Amazon Devices
Amazon Fashion
Amazon Fresh
Amazon Fresh Meat
Amazon Pharmacy
Appliances
Apps & Games
Audible Audiobooks
Baby
Beauty
Books
Car & Motorbike
Clothing & Accessories
Collectibles
Computers & Accessories
Deals
Electronics
Furniture
Garden & Outdoors
Gift Cards
Grocery & Gourmet Foods
Health & Personal Care
Home & Kitchen
Industrial & Scientific
Jewellery
Kindle Store
Luggage & Bags
Luxury Beauty
Movies & TV Shows
MP3 Music
Music
Musical Instruments
Office Products
Pet Supplies
Prime Video
Shoes & Handbags
Software
Sports, Fitness & Outdoors
Subscribe & Save
Tools & Home Improvement
Toys & Games
Under ₹500
Video Games
Watches
Search Amazon.in
EN
Hello, sign in
Account & Lists
Returns
& Orders
0
Cart
All
Fresh
MX Player
Sell
Bestsellers
Today's Deals
Mobiles
New Releases
Prime
Amazon Pay
Electronics
Customer Service
Home & Kitchen
Fashion
Computers
Toys & Games
Car & Motorbike
Home Improvement
Gift Cards
Pet Supplies
Beauty & Personal Care
Video Games
Sports, Fitness & Outdoors
Baby
Custom Products
Grocery & Gourmet Foods
Health, Household & Personal Care
Audible
AmazonBasics
Subscribe & Save
Kindle eBooks
Books
Flights
Help and Customer Service
Find more solutions
Security and Privacy
›
Legal Policies
›
Conditions of Use
Disclaimer:
In the event of any discrepancy or conflict, the English version will
prevail over the translation.
Last updated: June 16, 2026.
The website www.amazon.in ("Amazon.in") is operated by Amazon Seller Services Private
Limited ("Amazon" or "us" or "we" or "our"), having its registered office located
Sattva Horizon, 2
nd
Floor, Survey No 6/1 and 7/1, Vinayak Nagar Kattigenahalli, Venkatala Village, Yelahanka Hobli, Bengaluru 560064.
Please read the Conditions of Use document carefully before using the Amazon.in website.
By using the Amazon.in website, you signify your agreement to be bound by Amazon's
Conditions of Use. Amazon Europe Core SARL, Amazon EU SARL, Amazon Services Europe
SARL and Amazon Media EU SARL, all four at 38 avenue John F. Kennedy, L-1855, Luxembourg
and Amazon Digital UK Limited of 1 Principal Place, Worship Street, London, EC2A 2FA,
UK (together "Amazon Europe") are data controllers of personal information collected
and processed through Amazon Services. Details can be found here. As described in
our Privacy Notice, we share information with Amazon.com, Inc. and the subsidiaries
that Amazon.com, Inc. controls that are either subject to our Privacy Notice or follow
practices at least as protective as those described in our Privacy Notice. We also
share information with third-party service providers. For example, we use third-party
service providers to fulfill orders for products or services, and to deliver packages.
For any further details on our security practices please read our Privacy Notice.
For any queries or issues relating to Amazon.in, you can contact us by clicking
www.amazon.in/gp/help/contact-us
Conditions of Use
Conditions of Sale
Please read these conditions carefully before using the Amazon.in website. By using
the Amazon.in website, you signify your agreement to be bound by these conditions.
In addition, when you use any current or future Amazon.in service (eg. Wish List or
Marketplace) ("Amazon Service"), you will also be subject to the terms, guidelines
and conditions applicable to that Amazon Service. ("Terms"). If these Conditions of
Use are inconsistent with such Terms, the Terms will control.
These "Conditions of Use" constitute an electronic record within the meaning of the
applicable law. This electronic record is generated by a computer system and does
not require any physical or digital signatures.
Conditions Relating to Your Use of Amazon.in
Notice and Procedure for Making Claims of Infringement
Notice and Procedure for Notifying Amazon.in of Objectionable Content
Conditions Relating to Your Use of Amazon.in
Your Account
If you use the website, you are responsible for maintaining the confidentiality of
your account and password and for restricting access to your computer to prevent unauthorised
access to your account. You agree to accept responsibility for all activities that
occur under your account or password. You should take all necessary steps to ensure
that the password is kept confidential and secure and should inform us immediately
if you have any reason to believe that your password has become known to anyone else,
or if the password is being, or is likely to be, used in an unauthorised manner. Please
ensure that the details you provide us with are correct and complete and inform us
immediately of any changes to the information that you provided when registering.
You can access and update much of the information you provided us with in the
Your Account
Your Account (https://www.amazon.in/gp/css/homepage.html/youraccount) area of the
website. You agree and acknowledge that you will use your account on the website to
purchase products only for your personal use and not for business purposes. Should
you wish to order products for business purposes, please create a business account
on
Amazon.in/business
Amazon.in/business. Amazon.in reserves the right to refuse access to the website,
terminate accounts, remove or edit content at any time without notice to you.
Back to top
Privacy
Please review our
Privacy Notice
, which also governs your visit
to Amazon.in, to understand our practices. The personal information / data provided
to us by you during the course of usage of Amazon.in will be treated as strictly confidential
and in accordance with the Privacy Notice and applicable laws and regulations. If
you object to your information being transferred or used, please do not use the website.
Back to top
E-Platform for Communication
You agree, understand and acknowledge that the website is an online platform that
enables you to purchase products listed on the website at the price indicated therein
at any time from any location. You further agree and acknowledge that Amazon is only
a facilitator and is not and cannot be a party to or control in any manner any transactions
on the website. Accordingly, the contract of sale of products on the website shall
be a strictly bipartite contract between you and the sellers on Amazon.in.
Back to top
Access to Amazon.in
We will do our utmost to ensure that availability of the website will be uninterrupted
and that transmissions will be error-free. However, due to the nature of the Internet,
this cannot be guaranteed. Also, your access to the website may also be occasionally
suspended or restricted to allow for repairs, maintenance, or the introduction of
new facilities or services at any time without prior notice. We will attempt to limit
the frequency and duration of any such suspension or restriction.
Back to top
Licence for website access
Subject to your compliance with these Conditions of Use and payment of applicable
fees, if any, Amazon Seller Services Private Limited grants you a limited licence
to access and make personal use of this website, but not to download (other than page
caching) or modify it, or any portion of it, except with express written consent of
Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and / or its affiliates, as may be applicable.
This licence does not include any resale or commercial use of this website or its
contents; any collection and use of any product listings, descriptions, or prices;
any derivative use of this website or its contents; any downloading or copying of
account information for the benefit of another seller; or any use of data mining,
robots, or similar data gathering and extraction tools.
This website or any portion of this website (including but not limited to any copyrighted
material, trademarks, or other proprietary information) may not be reproduced, duplicated,
copied, sold, resold, visited, distributed or otherwise exploited for any commercial
purpose without express written consent of Amazon Seller Services Private Limited
and / or its affiliates, as may be applicable. You will not, and will not allow any third party to, use AI-generated content from this website and/or the Amazon Services to, directly or indirectly, develop or improve large language or multimodal models, machine learning models or related technology.
You may not frame or use framing techniques to enclose any trademark, logo, or other
proprietary information (including images, text, page layout, or form) of Amazon.in
and its affiliates without express written consent. You may not use any meta tags
or any other "hidden text" utilising Amazon Seller Services Private Limited's or its
affiliates' names or trademarks without the express written consent of Amazon Seller
Services Private Limited and / or its affiliates, as applicable. Any unauthorised
use terminates the permission or license granted by Amazon Seller Services Private
Limited and / or its affiliates, as applicable.
You are granted a limited, revocable, and non-exclusive right to create a hyperlink
to the Welcome page of Amazon.in as long as the link does not portray Amazon Seller
Services Private Limited, Amazon.in, their affiliates, or their products or services
in a false, misleading, derogatory, or otherwise offensive matter. You may not use
any Amazon.in logo or other proprietary graphic or trademark as part of the link without
express written consent of Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and / or its affiliates,
as may be applicable.
Back to top
Your Conduct
You must not use the website in any way that causes, or is likely to cause, the website
or access to it to be interrupted, damaged or impaired in any way You understand that
you, and not Amazon.in, are responsible for all electronic communications and content
sent from your computer to us and you must use the website for lawful purposes only.
You must not use the website for any of the following:
for fraudulent purposes, or in connection with a criminal offense or other unlawful
activity
to send, use or reuse any material that does not belong to you; or is illegal, is
offensive (including but not limited to material that is sexually explicit content
or which promotes racism, bigotry, hatred or physical harm), deceptive, misleading,
abusive, indecent, invasive of another's privacy, including bodily privacy, insulting
or harassing on the basis of gender, blasphemous, defamatory, libelous, obscene, pornographic,
pedophilic, or menacing; racially or ethnically objectionable, or disparaging; in
breach of copyright, trademark, patent, confidentiality, privacy or any other proprietary
information or right; or is otherwise injurious to third parties or relates to or
promotes money laundering or gambling or promotes enmity between different groups
on the grounds of religion or caste with the intent to incite violence; or is harmful
to minors in any way; or impersonates another person; or threatens the unity, integrity,
defence, security or sovereignty of India or friendly relations with foreign States
or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence or
prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting other nation; or objectionable
or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatsoever; or which consists of or contains software
viruses or any other computer code, file or program designed to interrupt, destroy
or limit the functionality of any computer resource, political campaigning, commercial
solicitation, chain letters, mass mailings or any spam;.
to deceive or mislead the addressee about the origin of messages.
to create, generate, modify, alter, upload, publish, transmit, share or otherwise make available any synthetically generated information (including AI-generated images, audio, video, endorsements, testimonials, certifications or other representations) that violates applicable law, including the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021, as amended from time to time.
Any violation of applicable law by you, including but not limited to the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 (as amended from time to time), the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023 (45 of 2023), the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (46 of 2023), the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (32 of 2012), the Representation of the People Act, 1951 (43 of 1951), the Indecent Representation of Women (Prohibition) Act, 1986 (60 of 1986), the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (14 of 2013), and the Immoral Traffic (Prevention) Act, 1956 (104 of 1956), may attract penalty or punishment as prescribed under such applicable law.
Amazon reserves the right, at its sole discretion and in accordance with applicable law, to disable or remove access to any information (including unlawful synthetically generated information), data, communication, or content, and/or suspend or terminate access to the website for breach of applicable law or these Conditions of Use.
Amazon may preserve, retain, report, and disclose any relevant information, including but not limited to user identification details to any lawful authority or any other person or entity, where required or permitted under applicable law. Where any violation relates to the commission of an offence that is mandatorily reportable under applicable law, including under the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023 (46 of 2023) or the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (32 of 2012), Amazon shall report such offence to the appropriate authority to the extent required under applicable law.
Back to top
Reviews, comments, communications and other content
Users of this website may post reviews, comments and other content; send communications;
and submit suggestions, ideas, comments, questions, or other information, as long
as the content does / is not illegal, offensive (including but not limited to material
that is sexually explicit content or which promotes racism, bigotry, hatred or physical
harm), deceptive, misleading, abusive, indecent, invasive of another's privacy, including
bodily privacy, insulting or harassing on the basis of gender, blasphemous, defamatory,
libelous, obscene, pornographic, pedophilic or menacing; racially or ethnically objectionable,
or disparaging; in breach of copyright, trademark, patent, confidentiality, privacy
or any other proprietary information or right; or otherwise injurious to third parties
or relates to or promotes money laundering or gambling, or promotes enmity between
different groups on the grounds of religion or caste with the intent to incite violence;
or is harmful to minors in any way, or impersonates another person; or threatens the
unity, integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India or friendly relations
with foreign States or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any
cognisable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting other
nation; or objectionable or otherwise unlawful in any manner whatsoever; or which
consists of or contains software viruses or any other computer code, file or program
designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource,
political campaigning, commercial solicitation, chain letters, mass mailings or any
spam; or deceive or mislead the addressee about the origin of messages.Without limiting the foregoing, content that is synthetically generated, manipulated or altered using artificial intelligence systems, generative models, or similar technologies must not falsely represent any person, product, certification, regulatory approval or material fact. Where required under applicable law, users must clearly disclose that content is synthetically generated. Amazon reserves the right (but not the obligation) to remove, restrict, disable access to, or label any content that it determines, in its sole discretion, involves unlawful synthetically generated information or otherwise violates applicable law. In the event a user fails to comply with the above. Amazon.in reserves the right (but not the obligation) at its sole discretion and in accordance with applicable law to remove, refuse, delete,  edit, disable or remove access to any content or information including any unlawful synthetically generated information that in the sole judgement of Amazon.in violates these Conditions of use and, and/or terminate your permission to access or use this website for breach of applicable law or these Conditions of use.
If you do post content or submit material, and unless we indicate otherwise, you
grant Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and its affiliates a non-exclusive,
royalty-free, irrevocable, perpetual and fully sublicensable rights to use, reproduce,
modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, distribute, and display
such content throughout the world in any media; and
Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and its affiliates and sublicensees the right to use the name that you submit in connection with such content, if they choose.
You agree that the rights you grant above are irrevocable during the entire period
of protection of your intellectual property rights associated with such content and
material. You agree to waive your right to be identified as the author of such
content and your right to object to derogatory treatment of such content
. You agree to perform all further acts necessary to perfect any of the above rights
granted by you to Amazon Seller Services Private Limited, including the execution
of deeds and documents, at its request.
You represent and warrant that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to
the content that you post or that you otherwise provide on or through the website;
that, as at the date that the content or material is submitted to Amazon.in: (i) the
content and material is accurate; (ii) use of the content and material you supply
does not breach any applicable Amazon.in policies or guidelines and will not cause
injury to any person or entity (including that the content or material is not defamatory);
(iii) the content is lawful. You agree to indemnify Amazon Seller Services Private
Limited and its affiliates for all claims brought by a third party against it or its
affiliates arising out of or in connection with a breach of any of these warranties.
Back to top
Claims against Objectionable Content
You can refer to the product detail page on Amazon.in for checking any product details
provided by the seller regarding the following:
the total price in single figure of any good or service, along with the breakup price
for the good or service, showing all the compulsory and voluntary charges such as
delivery charges, postage and handling charges, conveyance charges and the applicable
tax, as applicable. These details are available on the invoice issued to you. To understand
how to generate an invoice you can refer here.
mandatory notices and information provided by applicable laws, and the expiry date
of the good being offered for sale, where applicable; .
goods and services offered for sale by the seller including country of origin which
are necessary for enabling the consumer to make an informed decision at the pre-purchase
stage.
importer and the guarantees related to the authenticity or genuineness of the imported
products; and.
guarantees or warranties applicable to such goods or services. .Further, all contractual
information required to be disclosed by law is incorporated as part of the Amazon
Services Business Solutions Agreement (BSA) executed by each seller on Amazon.in,
prior to listing its products. A copy of the BSA is available
here
. Because Amazon.in lists millions of products for sale offered by sellers on the
website and hosts many thousands of comments, it is not possible for us to be aware
of the contents of each product listed for sale, or each comment or review that is
displayed. Accordingly, Amazon.in operates on a "notice and takedown" basis. If you
believe that any content on the website is illegal, offensive (including but not limited
to material that is sexually explicit content or which promotes racism, bigotry, hatred
or physical harm), deceptive,misleading, abusive, indecent, insulting or harassing
on the basis of gender, blasphemous, defamatory, libelous, obscene, pornographic,
paedophillic or menacing; racially or ethnically objectionable, or disparaging; breach of copyright, trademark, patent, confidentiality, privacy or any other proprietary
information or right; or otherwise injurious to third parties or relates to or promotes
money laundering or gambling, or promotes enmity between different groups on the grounds
of religion or caste with the intent to incite violence; or is harmful to minors any way, or impersonates another person; or threatens the unity, integrity, defence,
security or sovereignty of India or friendly relations with foreign States or public
order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognisable offence or prevents
investigation of any offence or is insulting other nation; or objectionable or otherwise
unlawful in any manner whatsoever; or which consists of or contains software viruses
or any other computer code, file or program designed to interrupt, destroy or limit
the functionality of any computer resource, political campaigning, commercial solicitation,
chain letters, mass mailings or any spam; or deceives or misleads the addressee about
the origin of messages; including any synthetically generated or artificially manipulated content that misrepresents identity, endorsement, product characteristics, certification, regulatory approval or other material facts in violation of applicable law  (" Objectionable Content "), please notify us immediately by
following our
Notice and Procedure for Making Claims of Right Infringements
. Once this procedure has been followed, Amazon.in will make all reasonable endeavours
to remove such Objectionable Content complained about within a reasonable time.
Back to top
Copyright, authors' rights and database rights
All content included on the website, such as text, graphics, logos, button icons,
images, audio clips, digital downloads, data compilations, and software, is the property
of Amazon Seller Services Private Limited, its affiliates or its content suppliers
and is protected by India and international copyright, authors' rights and database
right laws. The compilation of all content on this website is the exclusive property
of Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and its affiliates and is protected by laws
of India and international copyright and database right laws. All software used on
this website is the property of Amazon Seller Services Private Limited, its affiliates
or its software suppliers and is protected by India and international copyright and
author' rights laws.
You may not systematically extract/ or re-utilise parts of the contents of the website
without Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and / or its affiliate's (as may be
applicable) express written consent. In particular, you may not utilise any data mining,
robots, or similar data gathering and extraction tools to extract (whether once or
many times) for re-utilisation of any substantial parts of this website, without Amazon
Seller Services Private Limited and / or its affiliate's (as may be applicable) express
written consent. You may also not create and/ or publish your own database that features
substantial (eg: prices and product listings) parts of this website without Amazon
Seller Services Private Limited and / or its affiliate's (as may be applicable) express
written consent.
Back to top
Intellectual Property Claims
Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and its affiliates respect the intellectual
property of others. If you believe that your intellectual property rights have been
used in a way that gives rise to concerns of infringement, please follow our
Notice and Procedure for Making Claims of Right Infringements
.
Back to top
Trademarks
AMAZON.IN, AMAZON, THE AMAZON LOGO, AND YOU'RE DONE, 1-CLICK, EARTH'S BIGGEST SELECTION,
PURCHASE CIRCLES, LISTMANIA, NEW FOR YOU, AMAZON.COM, AMAZON.DE, AMAZON.FR, AMAZON.IT,
AMAZON.CO.JP, AMAZON.CA, AMAZON HONOR SYSTEM, PAYPAGE and other marks indicated on
our website are trademarks or registered trademarks of Amazon.com, Inc. or its subsidiaries
(collectively "Amazon"), in the European Union and/or other jurisdictions. Amazon.in's
graphics, logos, page headers, button icons, scripts and service names are the trademarks
or trade dress of Amazon. Amazon's trademarks and trade dress may not be used in connection
with any product or service that is not Amazon's, or in any manner that is likely to
cause confusion among customers, or in any manner that disparages or discredits Amazon.
All other trademarks not owned by Amazon that appear on this website are the property
of their respective owners, who may or may not be affiliated with, connected to, or
sponsored by Amazon.
Back to top
Patents
One or more patents apply to the website and to the features and services accessible
via the website, including without limitation: US Patent Nos. 5,715,399; 5,960,411;
6,006,225; 6,029,141; 6,064,980; 6,144,958; 6,169,986; 6,185,558; 6,266,649; 6,317,722;
6,360,254; 6,366,910; 6,401,084 and all corresponding foreign counterparts.
Back to top
Disclaimer
You acknowledge and undertake that you are accessing the services on the website
and transacting at your own risk and are using your best and prudent judgment before
entering into any transactions through the website. You further acknowledge and undertake
that you will use the website to order products only for your personal use and not
for business purposes. We shall neither be liable nor responsible for any actions
or inactions of sellers nor any breach of conditions, representations or warranties
by the sellers or manufacturers of the products and hereby expressly disclaim and
any all responsibility and liability in that regard. We shall not mediate or resolve
any dispute or disagreement between you and the sellers or manufacturers of the products.
We further expressly disclaim any warranties or representations (express or implied)
in respect of quality, suitability, accuracy, reliability, completeness, timeliness,
performance, safety, merchantability, fitness for a particular purpose, or legality
of the products listed or displayed or transacted or the content (including product
or pricing information and/or specifications) on the website. While we have taken
precautions to avoid inaccuracies in content, this website, all content, information
(including the price of products), software, products, services and related graphics
are provided as is, without warranty of any kind. We do not implicitly or explicitly
support or endorse the sale or purchase of any products on the website. At no time
shall any right, title or interest in the products sold through or displayed on the
website vest with Amazon nor shall Amazon have any obligations or liabilities in respect
of any transactions on the website.
Back to top
Indemnity and Release
You shall indemnify and hold harmless Amazon Seller Services Private Limited, its
subsidiaries, affiliates and their respective officers, directors, agents and employees,
from any claim or demand, or actions including reasonable attorney's fees, made by
any third party or penalty imposed due to or arising out of your breach of these Conditions
of Use or any document incorporated by reference, or your violation of any law, rules,
regulations or the rights of a third party.
You hereby expressly release Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and/or its affiliates
and/or any of its officers and representatives from any cost, damage, liability or
other consequence of any of the actions/inactions of the vendors and specifically
waiver any claims or demands that you may have in this behalf under any statute, contract
or otherwise.
Back to top
Children
Use of Amazon.in is available only to persons who can form a legally binding contract
under the Indian Contract Act, 1872. If you are a minor i.e. under the age of 18 years,
you may use Amazon.in only with the involvement of a parent or guardian.
Back to top
Other Businesses
Parties other than Amazon Seller Services Private Limited and its affiliates may
operate stores, provide services, or sell product lines on Amazon.in. For example,
businesses and individuals offer products via Marketplace. In addition, we provide
links to the websites of affiliated companies and certain other businesses. We are
not responsible for examining or evaluating, and we do not warrant or endorse the
offerings of any of these businesses or individuals, or the content of their websites.
Amazon Seller Services Private Limited does not assume any responsibility or liability
for the actions, products, and content of any of these and any other third-parties.
You can tell when a third-party is involved in your transactions, and we may share
customer information related to those transactions with that third-party. You should
carefully review their privacy statements and other conditions of use.
Back to top
Communications
When you visit Amazon.in, you are communicating with us electronically. You will
be required to provide a valid phone number while placing an order with us. We may
communicate with you by e-mail, SMS, phone call or by posting notices on the website
or by any other mode of communication. For contractual purposes, you consent to receive
communications (including transactional, promotional and/or commercial messages),
from us with respect to your use of the website and/or your order placed on the website.
Back to top
Losses
We will not be responsible for any business loss (including loss of profits, revenue,
contracts, anticipated savings, data, goodwill or wasted expenditure) or any other
indirect or consequential loss that is not reasonably foreseeable to both you and
us when you commenced using the website.
Back to top
Alteration of Service or Amendments to the Conditions
We reserve the right to make changes to our website, policies, and these Conditions
of Use at any time. You will be subject to the policies and Conditions of Use in force
at the time that you use the website or that you order goods from us, unless any change
to those policies or these conditions is required to be made by law or government
authority (in which case it will apply to orders previously placed by you). If any
of these conditions is deemed invalid, void, or for any reason unenforceable, that
condition will be deemed severable and will not affect the validity and enforceability
of any remaining condition.
Back to top
Events beyond our reasonable control
We will not be held responsible for any delay or failure to comply with our obligations
under these conditions if the delay or failure arises from any cause which is beyond
our reasonable control. This condition does not affect your statutory rights.
Back to top
Waiver
If you breach these conditions and we take no action, we will still be entitled to
use our rights and remedies in any other situation where you breach these conditions.
Back to top
Governing law and Jurisdiction
These conditions are governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of India.
You agree, as we do, to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi.
Back to top
Our Details
This website is operated by Amazon Seller Services Private Limited.
For the Amazon.in website, you could contact us by visiting:
www.amazon.in/gp/help/contact-us
Back to top
Customer Complaint Details
The details pertaining to each customer complaint lodged (including the status of
the complaint and tracking details) are provided in the return e-mails which are sent
back to the customers.
Back to top
Amazon Software Terms
In addition to these Conditions of Use, the terms found
here
apply to any software (including any updates or upgrades to the software and any
related documentation) that we make available to you from time to time for your use
in connection with Amazon Services (the "Amazon Software").
Back to top
Sanctions and Export Policy
You may not use any Amazon Service if you are the subject of U.S. sanctions or of
sanctions consistent with U.S. law imposed by the governments of the country where
you are using Amazon Services. You must comply with all U.S. or other export and re-export
restrictions that may apply to goods, software (including Amazon Software), technology
and services.
Back to top
Notice and Procedure for Making Claims of Right Infringements
If you believe that your rights are being infringed, you may fill out and submit the
Notice Form
Notice Form (https://www.amazon.in/report/infringement). We respond expeditiously
to rights owners and their agents who complete and submit the Notice Form to communicate
concerns about any alleged infringement.
Upon receipt of a Notice Form we may take certain actions, including removing information
or an item, all of which are taken without any admission as to liability and without
prejudice to any rights, remedies or defenses, all of which are expressly reserved.
Furthermore, in submitting a Notice Form, you grant to Amazon the right to use, reproduce,
modify, adapt, publish, translate, create derivative works from, and display its content
throughout the world in any media. This includes forwarding the Notice Form to the
parties involved in the provision of the allegedly infringing content. You agree to
indemnify Amazon for all claims brought by a third party against Amazon arising out
of or in connection with the submission of a Notice Form.
Note on Third Party Seller Listings: Please keep in mind that Third Party Seller listings
are merely hosted on Amazon.in and are posted solely at the direction of Third Party
Sellers who may be contacted via their "Seller Information" page, accessible from
any of their listings.
ASIN and ISBN-10, Defined: "ASIN" stands for Amazon Standard Item (or Identification)
Number and is a ten (10) character identifier. It can be found below any listing under
"Product Details". "ISBN-10" stands for International Standard Book Number and is
a ten (10) digit identifier that can be found on some book listings under "Product
Details".
Important Warning: giving false, misleading or inaccurate information in the Notice
Form to Amazon may result in civil and/or criminal liability. You should contact a
legal advisor should you have any questions.
Back to top
Notice Form:
If you believe that your rights are being violated by an item or information on the
Amazon.in site, you may fill out and submit the Notice Form (below). This signed form
can be sent via E-mail PDF or Fax to the Grievance Officer:
Name:
Saurabh Joshi
e-mail PDF:
grievance-officer@amazon.in
Subject Line:
Claim of Infringement
or
Fax:
040 - 39922887
or
Amazon Seller Services Pvt. Ltd.
Ground Floor
Eros Plaza, Eros Corporate Tower
Nehru Place
New Delhi 110019
(We will accept a signed PDF via e-mail with the subject line "Claim of Infringement"
or Fax, unless by prior agreement we have agreed with you for an alternative receipt
mechanism).
Prime Video:
For complaints pertaining to Amazon Prime Video, please refer to the mechanism found
here
. By submitting complaints pertaining to the foregoing, you consent to our sharing of
such information pursuant to our
Privacy Notice
.
Please fill out the Notice form using the corresponding numbered paragraphs to frame
your communication.
Back to top
Notice Form
Re: www.Amazon.in
I, [INSERT FULL NAME AND TITLE ] of [COMPANY NAME, IF APPLICABLE] , state as follows:
Contact information
: (a) Your and/ or your company's name, address, telephone number and contact email
address; (b)The contact email address and/or name which we will provide to Third Party
Sellers (if relevant) so they may contact you to resolve any issues regarding your
notification to us. If you do not provide a separate contact email, you authorize
us to use the contact information you provide in (1)(a).
Listing's ASIN (or ISBN-13 if applicable) and Allegation of Infringed Right:
(a) The listing's ASIN/ISBN-13 number or detailed description of where the information
that you claim is infringing your rights is located on the site; if regarding a Third
Party Seller listing please also provide the name used to identify the Seller on the
site (look for "dispatched and sold by _____" or "by ______" in the listing). (b)
A description of your intellectual property right(s) that you claim has/have been
infringed (e.g. copyright, trademark or patent) by the information of/for this ASIN/ISBN-13.
[REPEAT (2)(a-b) as necessary for multiple items, see example Notice Form here.]
Include the following statement: "I have a good faith belief that the portion of
the listing(s) described above violate(s) the intellectual property rights owned by
the intellectual property owner or its agent, nor is such use otherwise permissible
under law."
Include the following statement: "I represent that the information in this notification
is true and correct and that I am the intellectual property owner or authorised to
act on behalf of the intellectual property owner for the rights described above."
Sign the Notice Form.
Back to top
Notice and Procedure for Notifying Amazon.in of Objectionable Content
If you believe that any content on, or advertised for sale on, the website contains
any Objectionable Content as defined under Section 8 above, please notify us immediately
by copying the Notice to Amazon.in of Objectionable Content below into your word processor
program, complete it in accordance with the instructions set out in the Notice and
send a signed copy via E-mail PDF or Fax to the Grievance Officer:
Name:
Saurabh Joshi
e-mail PDF:
grievance-officer@amazon.in
Subject Line:
Claim of Objectionable Content
or
Fax:
040 - 39922887
or
Amazon Seller Services Private Limited
Ground Floor,
Eros Plaza, Eros Corporate Tower,
Nehru Place,
New Delhi 110019
Please note that this procedure is exclusively for notifying Amazon.in of Objectionable
Content on or advertised for sale on the Amazon.in website. Please provide your address,
telephone number, and e-mail address when sending the notice to us.
Important Warning:
Giving false, misleading or inaccurate information in the Notice to Amazon.in may
result in civil and/ or criminal liability.
Notice to Amazon.in of Objectionable Content
In the matter of Amazon.in
I, [Please set out your full name] of [please give your postal address], [please set
your occupation], says as follows:
I refer to the website www.Amazon.in ("the website"). I make this statement in support
of my giving Amazon.in notice that, via the website, it is causing or contributing
to the publication of Objectionable Content.
The Objectionable Content (delete whichever paragraph is not applicable): (a) appear
in a book being sold by Amazon.in via the website entitled [please state the book
name and its author]. The Objectionable Content appear on page
[please state the page number(s) where you consider the words constitute Objectionable
Content].
OR (b) appear on the website at
[please cut and paste the address of the relevant Web page from the website where
the Objectionable Content appears]
The words/ content that I consider to be Objectionable Content are
[please repeat the exact words you are complaining about]
This content is Objectionable Content because
[please state why you consider the content is Objectionable Content]
I understand that this statement may be used in any court proceedings that may arise
out of or relating to the Objectionable Content which I have complained about.
Statement of Truth
I declare the facts stated above to be true.
Signed:
Dated:
Please read the conditions of use carefully before using the Amazon.in website. By
using the Amazon.in website, you signify your agreement to be bound by these conditions.
Amazon Software Terms
Back to top
Use of the Amazon Software
You may use Amazon Software solely for purposes of enabling you to use and enjoy
the Amazon Services as provided by Amazon, and as permitted by the Conditions of Use,
these Amazon Software Terms and any Terms. You may not incorporate any portion of
the Amazon Software into your own programs or compile any portion of it in combination
with your own programs, transfer it for use with another service, or sell, rent, lease,
lend, loan, distribute or sub-license the Amazon Software or otherwise assign any
rights to the Amazon Software in whole or in part. You may not use the Amazon Software
for any illegal purpose. We may cease providing any Amazon Software and we may terminate
your right to use any Amazon Software at any time. Your rights to use the Amazon Software
will automatically terminate without notice from us if you fail to comply with any
of these Amazon Software Terms, the Conditions of Use or any other Terms. Additional
third party terms contained within or distributed with certain Amazon Software that
are specifically identified in related documentation may apply to that Amazon Software
(or software incorporated with the Amazon Software) and will govern the use of such
software in the event of a conflict with these Conditions of Use. All software used
in any Amazon Service is the property of Amazon and/or its affiliates or its software
suppliers and protected by laws of India including but not limited to any other applicable
copyright laws.
Back to top
Use of Third Party Services
When you use the Amazon Software, you may also be using the services of one or more
third parties, such as a wireless carrier or a mobile platform provider. Your use
of these third party services may be subject to the separate policies, terms of use,
and fees of these third parties.
Back to top
No Reverse Engineering
You may not, and you will not encourage, assist or authorize any other person to copy, modify, reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble, or otherwise tamper with, or apply any other process or procedure to derive the source code or other underlying components (such as a model, model parameters, or model weights) from the Amazon Software, whether in whole or in part, or create any derivative works from or of the Amazon Software.
Back to top
Agents
The terms in this section (“Agent Terms”) apply if you use, allow, enable, or cause the deployment of an Agent to access, use, or interact with any Amazon Services. For the purposes of these Agent Terms, “Agent” means any software or service that takes autonomous or semi-autonomous action on behalf of, or at the instruction of, any person or entity.
Transparency and Consent.
No Agent may access, use, or interact with Amazon Services unless, at all times, it identifies itself and operates in strict accordance with the requirements in section 3 of these Agent Terms. In addition, no Agent may access, use, or interact with Amazon Services if we have requested that the Agent refrain from accessing, using, or interacting with any Amazon Service.
Limitation on Access.
At our sole discretion, we may limit, including by technical measures, whether and how any Agent accesses, uses, and interacts with Amazon Services.
Technical Requirements
. Agents must:
In all HTTP/HTTPS requests, identify that the request is from an Agent and disclose the name of the Agent by including the following in the request’s user agent string:
“Agent/[agent name]” (e.g., Agent/ AmazonAgent)
Not conceal or obfuscate that any access, use, or interactions are from an Agent, such as by (a) mimicking the speed or pattern of human keystrokes, page navigation, or other interactions, or (b) completing or circumventing CAPTCHAs or other measures intended to distinguish computers from humans.
Respond truthfully to any question or prompt seeking to determine if interactions are coming from a human or a computer.
Not circumvent or otherwise avoid any measure intended to block, limit, modify, or control whether and how Agents access, use, or interact with an Amazon Service.
Updates
In order to keep the Amazon Software up-to-date, we may offer automatic or manual
updates at any time and without notice to you.
Conditions of Sale (between Sellers and the Customer)
Please read these conditions carefully before placing an order for any products with
the Sellers ("We" or "Our" or "Us", wherever applicable) on the Amazon.in (the website).
These conditions signify your agreement to be bound by these conditions.
In addition, when you use any current or future Amazon.in service (eg: Wishlist or
Marketplace or Amazon MP3 Service), you will also be subject to the terms, guidelines
and conditions applicable to that service ("Terms"). If these Conditions of Sale are
inconsistent with such Terms, the Terms will control.
Conditions Relating to the Sale of Products to You
This section deals with conditions relating to the sale of products on the website
by us to you.
Our Contract
Your order is an offer to us to buy the product(s) in your order. When you place
an order to purchase a product from us, you will receive an e-mail confirming receipt
of your order and containing the details of your order (the "Order Confirmation E-mail").
The Order Confirmation E-mail is acknowledgement that we have received your order,
and does not confirm acceptance of your offer to buy the product(s) ordered. We only
accept your offer, and conclude the contract of sale for a product ordered by you,
when the product is dispatched to you and an e-mail confirmation is sent to you that
the product has been dispatched to you (the "Dispatch Confirmation E-mail"). If your
order is dispatched in more than one package, you may receive a separate Dispatch
Confirmation E-mail for each package, and each Dispatch Confirmation E-mail and corresponding
dispatch will conclude a separate contract of sale between you and us for the product(s)
specified in that Dispatch Confirmation E-mail.
Your contract is with us (the Sellers) and you confirm that the product(s) ordered
by you are purchased for your internal / personal purpose and not for re-sale or business
purpose. You authorize us to declare and provide declaration to any governmental authority
on your behalf stating the aforesaid purpose of the products ordered by you on the
website.
You can cancel your order for a product at no cost any time before we send the Dispatch
Confirmation E-mail relating to that product.
Please note that we sell products only in quantities which correspond to the typical
needs of an average household. This applies both to the number of products ordered
within a single order and the placing of several orders for the same product where
the individual orders comprise a quantity typical for a normal household.
Back to top
Returns
Most items purchased from sellers listed on Amazon.in are returnable within the return
window, except those that are explicitly identified as not returnable. The return
is processed only if:
it is determined that the product was not damaged while in your possession;
the product is not different from what was shipped to you;
the product is returned in original condition (with brand's/manufacturer's box, MRP
tag intact, user manual, warranty card and accessories)
You can review return policy for products listed on Amazon.in by clicking
here
. For the products
that are returned by the customer, the refund is issued to the original payment method
(in case of pre-paid transactions) or to the bank account / as Amazon Pay balance
(in case of Pay on Delivery orders), the details for making such refund and the timelines
are detailed in the refund policy available
here
.
Please review our Returns Policy, which applies to products sold by us.
Back to top
Pricing and availability
We list availability information for products sold by us on the website, including
on each product information page. Beyond what we say on that page or otherwise on
the website, we cannot be more specific about availability. Please note that dispatch
estimates are just that. They are not guaranteed dispatch times and should not be
relied upon as such. As we process your order, you will be informed by e-mail if any
products you order turn out to be unavailable.
For more details, please review our
Pricing policy
Pricing policy (https://www.amazon.in/gp/help/customer/display.html?nodeId=202001520)
and our
Availability Guide
, both of which apply to products ordered from us.
All prices are inclusive of VAT/CST, service tax, Goods and Services Tax ("GST"),
duties and cesses as applicable - unless stated otherwise.
Back to top
Taxes
You shall be responsible for payment of all fees/costs/charges associated with the
purchase of products from us and you agree to bear any and all applicable taxes including
but not limited to VAT/CST, service tax, GST, duties and cesses etc.
Back to top
Health & Safety
By purchasing any product from our Home & Kitchen shop, you acknowledge that you
have read and understood our Health & Safety Guidelines.
Back to top
Children
Use of Amazon.in is available only to persons who can form a legally binding contract
under the Indian Contract Act, 1872. If you are a minor i.e. under the age of 18 years,
you may purchase only with the involvement of a parent or guardian.
Back to top
Communications
When you visit Amazon.in, you are communicating with us electronically. You will
be required to provide a valid phone number while placing an order with us. We may
communicate with you by e-mail, SMS, phone call or by posting notices on the website
or by any other mode of communication. For contractual purposes, you consent to receive
communications including SMS, e-mails or phone calls from us with respect to your
order.
Back to top
Losses
We will not be responsible for any business loss (including loss of profits, revenue,
contracts, anticipated savings, data, goodwill or wasted expenditure) or any other
indirect or consequential loss that is not reasonably foreseeable to both you and
us when a contract for the sale of goods by us to you was formed.
Back to top
Alteration or Amendments to the Conditions
We reserve the right to make changes to our policies, and these Conditions of Sale
at any time. You will be subject to the policies and Conditions of Sale in force at
the time you order goods from us, unless any change to those policies or these conditions
is required to be made by law or government authority (in which case it will apply
to orders previously placed by you). If any of these conditions is deemed invalid,
void, or for any reason unenforceable, that condition will be deemed severable and
will not affect the validity and enforceability of any remaining condition.
Back to top
Events beyond our reasonable control
We will not be held responsible for any delay or failure to comply with our obligations
under these conditions if the delay or failure arises from any cause which is beyond
our reasonable control. This condition does not affect your statutory rights.
Back to top
Waiver
If you breach these conditions and we take no action, we will still be entitled to
use our rights and remedies in any other situation where you breach these conditions.
Back to top
Governing Law and Jurisdiction
These conditions are governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of India,
and the application of the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International
Sale of Goods is expressly excluded. You agree, as we do, to submit to the exclusive
jurisdiction of the courts at Delhi.
Back to top
Was this information helpful?
Yes
No
Thank you for your feedback.
Please select what best describes the information:
This information is confusing or wrong
This is not the information I was looking for
I do not like this policy
Submit
Thank you! While we are unable to respond directly to your feedback,
we will use this information to improve our online Help.
‹
All Help Topics
Legal Policies
Conditions of Use
Amazon.in Privacy Notice
Cookies
Quick solutions
Your Orders
Track or cancel orders
Your Orders
Track or cancel orders
Returns and Refunds
Return or exchange items
Returns and Refunds
Return or exchange items
Manage Prime
Cancel or view benefits
Manage Prime
Cancel or view benefits
Payment Settings
Add a new debit or credit card
Payment Settings
Add a new debit or credit card
Amazon Gift Cards
Check your gift card balance
Amazon Gift Cards
Check your gift card balance
Account Settings
Update email, password or phone
Account Settings
Update email, password or phone
Back to top
Get to Know Us
About Amazon
Careers
Press Releases
Amazon Science
Connect with Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Make Money with Us
Sell on Amazon
Sell under Amazon Accelerator
Protect and Build Your Brand
Amazon Global Selling
Supply to Amazon
Become an Affiliate
Fulfilment by Amazon
Advertise Your Products
Amazon Pay on Merchants
Let Us Help You
Your Account
Returns Centre
Recalls and Product Safety Alerts
100% Purchase Protection
Amazon App Download
Help
English
India
AbeBooks
Books, art
& collectibles
Amazon Web Services
Scalable Cloud
Computing Services
Audible
Download
Audio Books
IMDb
Movies, TV
& Celebrities
Shopbop
Designer
Fashion Brands
Amazon Business
Everything For
Your Business
Amazon Music
Stream millions of songs
Conditions of Use & Sale
Privacy Notice
Interest-Based Ads
© 1996-2026, Amazon.com, Inc. or its affiliates