Patient safety
Skip to main content
Overview
The global landscape of health care is changing with health systems operating in increasingly complex environments. While new treatments, technologies and care models can have therapeutic potential, they can also pose new threats to safe care. Patient safety is a fundamental principle of health care and is now being recognized as a large and growing global public health challenge. Global efforts to reduce the burden of patient harm have not achieved substantial change over the past 15 years, despite pioneering work in some health care settings.
Patient safety is a framework of organized activities that creates cultures, processes, procedures, behaviours, technologies and environments in health care that consistently and sustainably lower risks, reduce the occurrence of avoidable harm, make error less likely and reduce its impact when it does occur.
Every point in the process of care-giving contains a certain degree of inherent unsafety.
Clear policies, organizational leadership capacity, data to drive safety improvements, skilled health care professionals and effective involvement of patients and families in the care process, are all needed to ensure sustainable and significant improvements in the safety of health care.
Burden
Patient safety in health care is an urgent and serious global public health concern. Patient harm exerts a very high burden on all health care systems across the world. Every year, an inadmissible number of patients suffer injuries or die because of unsafe and poor quality health care. Most of these injuries are avoidable. The burden of unsafe care broadly highlights the magnitude and scale of the problem.
Patient harm due to adverse events is likely to be among the 10 leading causes of death and disability worldwide.
Most of these deaths and injuries are avoidable.
It is commonly reported that around 1 in 10 hospitalized patients experience harm, with at least 50% being preventable.
Around two-thirds of all adverse events resulting from unsafe care, and the years lost to disability and death, occur in LMICs.
It is estimated that the cost of harm associated with the loss of life or permanent disability, which results in lost capacity and productivity of the affected patients and families, amounts to trillions of US dollars every year. Furthermore, the psychological cost to the patient and their family (associated with the loss or disabling of a loved one), is certainly significant, though more difficult to measure.
WHO response
Recognizing the huge burden of patient harm in health care, the 72nd World Health Assembly, in May 2019, adopted a resolution (WHA72.6) on “Global action on patient safety”, which endorsed the establishment of World Patient Safety Day, to be observed every year on 17 September; and recognized “patient safety as a global health priority”. The resolution urges Member States to recognize patient safety as a key priority in health sector policies and programmes, and requests the Director-General of WHO to emphasize patient safety as a key strategic priority in WHO’s work, especially within the universal health coverage (UHC) agenda.
The resolution also requests WHO’s Director-General “to formulate a global patient safety action plan in consultation with Member States, regional economic integration organizations and all relevant stakeholders, including in the private sector”. This plan will be based on the guiding principles of equity, sustainability and accountability. The proposed action plan will seek inspiration and coherence with existing global action plans developed by WHO and other global health and development agencies. Responding to the unprecedented global patient safety movement, the need for very urgent and concerted action in this area, and aligning with the Sustainable Developmental Goals, WHO’s Director-General launched the WHO Flagship Initiative “A Decade of Patient Safety 2020-2030” in February 2020.
Fact sheets
Patient safety
Resolutions and decisions
WHA74(13): Decision of Global patient Safety Action Plan 2021-30
WHA72.6: Global action on patient safety
WHA55.18: Quality of care - patient safety
WHA73.1: COVID-19 response
WHA72.7:Patient safety: Water, sanitation and hygiene in health care facilities
WHA72.2: Primary health care
WHA70.7: Improving the prevention, diagnosis and clinical management of sepsis
WHA69.24: Strengthening integrated, people-centred health services
WHA68.15: Strengthening emergency and essential surgical care and anaesthesia as a component of universal health coverage
WHA67.25: Antimicrobial resistance
Initiatives and groups
The third WHO Global Patient Safety Challenge: Medication Without Harm
Global Patient Safety Collaborative
Patients for Patient Safety
Technical work
Patient Safety Flagship
Integrated Health Services
News
All →
17 September 2025
Departmental update
"Patient safety from the start!" — WHO urges global investment in safe paediatric and newborn care
14 August 2025
Departmental update
World Patient Safety Day 2025: explore free courses to enhance newborn and child health
23 May 2025
Departmental update
Progress on patient safety across health systems around the world
9 April 2025
Departmental update
Global Sepsis Alliance hosts annual World Sepsis Congress
Latest publications
All →
30 May 2024
Global patient safety report 2024
The "Global Patient Safety Report 2024" is the first-ever WHO report offering a comprehensive overview of patient safety implementation worldwide. Aligned...
Download
Read More
7 March 2024
Medication without harm: Policy brief
Patient harm due to unsafe care is a leading cause of death and disability worldwide and most of this harm is avoidable. Harm due to medicines and therapeutic...
Download
Read More
7 March 2024
Global burden of preventable medication-related harm in health care: a systematic review
Medication-related harm is considered preventable if it occurs as a result of an identifiable, modifiable cause and its recurrence can be avoided by appropriate...
Download
Read More
20 October 2023
Medication safety for look-alike, sound-alike medicines
Medication errors are a leading cause of patient harm globally. WHO launched the Global Patient Safety Challenge: Medication Without Harm, with the...
Download
Read More
Feature stories
All →
10 April 2022
Training on patient safety incident reporting and learning systems in Maldives
17 February 2022
PAHO/WHO and UK-FCDO Handover four Smart Health Care facilities in Belize to the MoHW
26 January 2022
PAHO & UKaid Handover Nine Smart Health Facilities to Jamaica
17 September 2020
Protecting the health workers who protect us all
Infographics
All →
Infographic
Tips to improve your diagnostic accuracy
Infographic
Steps for reaching a diagnosis
Infographic
Reaching a diagnosis is a team effort
Infographic
Elevate the voice of patients
Videos
All →
18 September 2025
WHO press conference on global health issues – 18 September 2025
1 September 2025
Patient safety from the start! Protecting every child’s health journey
16 September 2024
World Patient Safety Day 2024: Video message by WHO's Director-General
16 September 2024
Improving diagnosis for patient safety: Get it right, make it safe!
Events
All →
2026
World Patient Safety Day, 17 September 2026: "Safe care for noncommunicable diseases"
17 September 2026
World Patient Safety Day 2025 Webinar on Goal 4: Improve diagnostic safety
7 May 2026 14:00 – 16:00 CET
2026
World Patient Safety Day 2025 Webinar on Goal 4: Prevent health care-associated infections
7 May 2026 14:00 – 15:30 CET
Campaigns
World Patient Safety Day
17 September
Related health topics
Physical environment
Antimicrobial resistance
Health systems
Common goods for health
Health systems
Health workforce
Health systems
Infection prevention and control
Populations and demographics
Maternal health
Health interventions
Medical devices
Health interventions
Vaccines and immunization