blinkit | Terms
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Language Switcher
English
English
हिंदी
मराठी
తెలుగు
ಕನ್ನಡ
Main navigation
Home
About
Careers
Partner
Blog
Hamburger
Hide — Hamburger
Home
About
Lead
Value
Careers
Partner
Blog
Press
Security
Privacy
Terms
FAQs
Mobile
Contact
Franchise
Seller
Warehouse
Deliver
Resources
Follow us
https://www.instagram.com/letsblinkit
https://www.facebook.com/blinkit.india
https://twitter.com/letsblinkit
https://www.linkedin.com/company/letsblinkit
By continuing past this page you agree to our Terms, Cookie policy and Privacy policy. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners. © Blink Commerce Private Limited 2016-2025
Terms
Terms and conditions
Last updated in February 2026
Terms of use
Thank you, for using Blinkit.
For your information:
“Blink Commerce Private Limited”
, is a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 with its registered office at Ground Floor, Tower A, Pioneer Square Building, Golf Course Extension Road, Sector 62, Gurugram-122098, Haryana (hereinafter referred as
“We”/ “Blinkit”/ “Us”/ “Our”
).
For abundant clarity, Blinkit and/ or the trademark "blinkit" are neither related, linked or interconnected in whatsoever manner or nature, to “GROFFR.COM” (which is a real estate services business operated by “Redstone Consultancy Services Private Limited”).
The terms and conditions/ terms of use (
"Terms"
) governing the Blinkit Platform (defined later) and the Services (defined later) follow:
Acceptance of terms
These Terms are intended to make you aware of your legal rights and responsibilities with respect to your access to and use of the Blinkit’s website
www.blinkit.com
("
Site
") and/or any related mobile or software applications (collectively referred to as, “
Blinkit Platform
”) including but not limited to the services offered by Blinkit via the Blinkit Platform or otherwise ("
Services
").
Your use/ access of the Blinkit Platform shall be governed by these Terms and the Privacy Policy of Blinkit as available at
https://blinkit.com/privacy
(“
Privacy Policy
”). By accessing the Blinkit Platform and/ or undertaking any sale-purchase transaction, you agree to be bound by the Terms including any additional terms and conditions and policies referenced herein and/or available by hyperlink on the Blinkit Platform and acknowledge that it constitutes an agreement between you and Blinkit. You may not access the Blinkit Platform and use the Services if you do not accept the Terms or are unable to be bound by the Terms/ the Privacy Policy.
These Terms may be updated from time to time by Blinkit without notice. It is therefore strongly recommended that you review these Terms, as available on the Blinkit Platform, each time you access and/or use the Blinkit Platform. In the event there is any conflict or inconsistency between these Terms and any other terms of use that appear on the Blinkit Platform, these Terms will prevail.
The terms ‘visitor(s)’, ‘user(s)’, ‘you’, ‘your’, ‘customer(s)’ hereunder refer to the person visiting, accessing, viewing, browsing through and/or using the Blinkit Platform at any point in time.
Should you need any clarifications regarding the Terms, please do write to us at
[email protected]
Services Overview
Blinkit Platform is a platform for users/ consumers to transact with sellers/ service providers offering products/services for sale/ supply through the Blinkit Platform. Products/ services may be listed or offered for sale/ supply on the Blinkit Platform by Blinkit, its affiliates or third parties (“
Third Party Sellers
”) (such third party products/ services offered by Third Party Sellers shall hereinafter be referred to as “
Third Party Offerings
”). For abundant clarity, with respect to the Third Party Offerings, Blinkit does not provide any services to users other than providing the Blinkit Platform as a platform to transact at their own cost and risk, and other services as may be specifically notified in writing. Services on the Blinkit Platform are available to only select geographies in India.
Blinkit is not and cannot be a party to any transaction between you and the Third Party Sellers (which shall be a bipartite arrangement between you and the Third Party Seller), neither does Blinkit have any control or influence over the Third Party Offerings. Blinkit does not make any representation or warranties with respect to the Third Party Offerings, including relating to quality, suitability, merchantability and fitness for any purpose nor does Blinkit implicitly or explicitly support or endorse the sale/ supply or purchase of any such products/ services on the Blinkit Platform. Blinkit therefore disclaims all warranties and liabilities associated with any Third Party Offerings on the Blinkit Platform.
Eligibility
Persons who are “incompetent to contract” within the meaning of the Indian Contract Act, 1872 including minors, undischarged insolvent etc. are not eligible to use/access the Blinkit Platform. However, if you are a minor, i.e. under the age of 18 years, you may use/access the Blinkit Platform under the supervision of an adult parent or legal guardian “competent to contract” who agrees to be bound by these Terms. You are however prohibited (even under supervision) from purchasing any product(s) which is for adult consumption or the sale of which to minors is prohibited, including any tobacco products.
Blinkit Platform is intended to be a platform for end-consumers desirous of purchasing product(s)/availing services for domestic / self-consumption. If you are a retailer, institution, wholesaler or any other business to business user, you are not eligible to use the Blinkit Platform.
In order to determine compliance with eligibility criteria, Blinkit uses
inter alia
algorithms and/or pre-determined criteria-based technology and accordingly, from time to time, your usage may be restricted or blocked on account of overlap with such algorithms/pre-determined criteria. In such cases, if you are a genuine user of the Blinkit Platform, please contact us for assistance.
If you are using the Blinkit Platform on behalf of any person/ entity, you represent and warrant that you are authorized to accept these Terms on behalf of such person/ entity. Further, you and such person/ entity agree to be jointly and severally liable for compliance and indemnify us for violations of these Terms.
Account & Registration Obligations
All users must register and log in for placing orders on the Blinkit Platform. You must keep your account and registration details current and correct for all communications related to your purchases from the Blinkit Platform. By agreeing to the Terms, you agree to receive promotional, transactional or other communications, and newsletters from Blinkit and its group companies/ affiliates. You can opt out from such communications and/or newsletters by using the opt out options as available in such communications. You can also change your notification preferences as available in your profile section of Blinkit Platform.
When you access and use the Blinkit Platform, Blinkit may collect your personally identifiable information, including but not limited to name, email address, age, address, mobile phone number, and other contact details, demographic profile (like your age, gender, occupation, education, address etc.) preferences and information about the pages on the Blinkit Platform you visit/access, the links you click on the Blinkit Platform, the number of times you access a particular page/feature. We may also collect information pertaining to the transactions you undertake on the Blinkit Platform including financial information, and any other such information as may be required to provide you with services and to administer the Blinkit Platform. Personal data and identifiable Information so collected will be subject to Blinkit’s Privacy Policy.
By registering your mobile number with us, you provide your consent to be contacted by us or through a third party service provider via phone calls, SMS notifications, mobile applications and/or any other electronic mode of communication in case of any order or shipment or delivery or customer support related updates or for other correspondence as may be required in due course of provision of our Services.
Limited Licence & Access
Subject to the provisions set out in these Terms, Blinkit grants you a personal, limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable and revocable license to access (for personal use only) the Blinkit Platform and avail the Services, only as expressly permitted in these Terms in a lawful manner. Provided that you shall not download (other than page caching) or modify any portion thereof, except with express prior written consent of Blinkit. Such limited license does not include/permit any resale or commercial use of the Blinkit Platform or its contents; any collection, use or derivative use of the Blinkit Platform, its contents, any product listings, descriptions, or prices; any downloading or copying of information for the benefit of another third party; or any use of data mining, robots, or similar data gathering and extraction tools.
You hereby agree and undertake not to use, create, host, display, upload, modify, publish, transmit, update or share any information/ content/ Comments/ message/ language/ document/ Synthetically Generated Information (including pursuant to gifting services/ printing services/ orders to be delivered to someone else-third party recipients/ messages to be delivered along with the order) (whether in writing or otherwise while communicating on the Blinkit Platform including but not limited to communicating with our support agents or delivery partners/ service providers, through any medium) which (“
Prohibited Content
”):
Are in violation of these Terms.
Belongs to another person and to which you do not have any right or full rights;
Is harmful, threatening, abusive including child sexual abuse material, indecent, discriminatory, tortious, vulgar, profane, harassing, blasphemous, defamatory, problematic, obscene, pornographic, paedophilic, libellous, invasive of another’s privacy, non-consensual intimate imagery, hateful, or racially, ethnically objectionable, disparaging, relating or encouraging money laundering or gambling, or otherwise offensive, objectionable, menacing, inappropriate or unlawful in any manner whatever;
Contains material that violates the standards of the Services;
Accuses others of illegal activity, or describes physical confrontations;
Attempts to impersonate another person or entity and/or falsely depicts or portrays a real person or event in a manner likely to deceive others about their identity, actions, or statements;
Disguises or attempts to disguise the origin of your messages, content, including but not limited to by: (a) submitting your content under a false name or false pretences; or (b) disguising or attempting to disguise the IP address from which your content is submitted;
Harms minors in any way;
Infringes any patent, trademark, copyright or another proprietary/intellectual property right;
Violates any applicable law including the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita, 2023, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and/ or may result in a civil/ criminal liability;
Contains software viruses or any other computer code, files or programs designed to interrupt, destroy or limit the functionality of any computer resource;
Threatens the unity, integrity, defence, security or sovereignty of India, friendly relations with foreign states, or public order or causes incitement to the commission of any cognizable offence or prevents investigation of any offence or is insulting any other nation;
Is misleading or known to be false in any way; and/ or
Constitutes an inauthentic or knowingly erroneous review;
Constitutes a form of deceptive advertisement or causes, or is a result of, a conflict of interest;
Is commercial in nature, including but not limited to spam, surveys, contests, pyramid schemes, postings or reviews submitted or removed in exchange for payment, postings or reviews submitted or removed by or at the request of the business being reviewed, or other advertising materials.
Asserts or implies that Comments are in any way sponsored or endorsed by Us;
Interferes with, disrupts, or destroys the functionality or use of any features of the Services or the servers or networks connected to the Services;
Hacks or accesses without permission our proprietary or confidential records, records of another User(s), or those of anyone else;
Violates any contract or fiduciary relationship (for example, by disclosing proprietary or confidential information of your employer or client in breach of any employment, consulting, or non-disclosure agreement);
Decompiles, reverse engineers, disassembles or otherwise attempts to derive source code from the Services;
Removes, circumvents, disables, damages or otherwise interferes with security-related features, or features that enforce limitations on use of, the Services;
Violates the restrictions in any robot exclusion headers on the Services, if any, or bypasses or circumvents other measures employed to prevent or limit access to the Services;
Collects, discloses, accesses, or stores personal information about other persons/ Customers of the Services;
Is posted by a bot;
Results in the creation of a false document or electronic record;
Attempts to do any of the foregoing.
You acknowledge that Blinkit has no obligation to monitor your – or anyone else's – access to or use of the Services for violations of the Terms, or to review or edit any content. However, we have the right to do so for the purpose of operating and improving the Services (including without limitation for fraud prevention, risk assessment, investigation and customer support purposes), to ensure your compliance with the Terms and to comply with applicable law or the order or requirement of legal process, a court, consent decree, administrative agency or other governmental body.
Any and all liability arising out of or relating to violation of these Terms including in relation to the aforesaid information/ content/ message is your sole and absolute responsibility, and not of Blinkit.
Blinkit Platform or any portion of the Blinkit Platform may not be reproduced, duplicated, copied, sold, resold, visited, or otherwise exploited for any commercial purpose without express prior written consent of Blinkit.
You may not frame or utilize framing techniques to enclose any trademark, logo, or other proprietary information (including images, text, page layout, or form) of the Blinkit Platform or of Blinkit and/or its group companies/ affiliates without the express prior written consent of Blinkit.
You may not use any meta tags or any other “hidden text” utilizing Blinkit’s name or trademarks without the express prior written consent of Blinkit.
You shall not attempt to gain unauthorized access to any portion or feature of the Blinkit Platform, or any other systems or networks connected to the Blinkit Platform or to any server, computer, network, or to any of the services offered on or through the Blinkit Platform, by hacking, ‘password mining’ or any other illegitimate means.
Any unauthorized use shall automatically terminate the permission or license granted by Blinkit determined at Blinkit’s sole discretion.
Advertising
Part of the website may contain advertising information or promotional material or other material submitted to Blinkit by third parties (including  brands) or customers. Responsibility for ensuring that material submitted for inclusion on the Blinkit Platform complies with applicable international and national law is exclusively on the party providing the information/material. Your correspondence or business dealings with, or participation in promotions of, advertisers (other than Blinkit) found on or through the Blinkit Platform, including payment and delivery of related goods or services, and any other terms, conditions, warranties or representations associated with such dealings, shall be solely between you and such advertiser. Blinkit will not be responsible or liable for any error or omission, inaccuracy in advertising material or any loss or damage of any sort incurred as a result of any such dealings or as a result of the presence of such other advertiser(s) on the Blinkit Platform.
For any information related to a charitable campaign ("
Charitable Campaign
") sent to customers and/or displayed on the Blinkit Platform where customers have an option to donate money by way of (a) payment on a third party website; or (b) depositing funds to a third party bank account, Blinkit is not involved in any manner in the collection or utilisation of funds collected pursuant to the Charitable Campaign. For Charitable Campaigns where the customers have an option to contribute via the Blinkit Platform, Blinkit operates purely as a technology platform facilitating collection of contributions on behalf of the charitable organisation. Blinkit is not involved in any manner in the collection (except acting as a facilitator) or utilisation of funds collected pursuant to the any Charitable Campaign. Blinkit does not accept any responsibility or liability for the accuracy, completeness, legality or reliability of any information related to the Charitable Campaign. Information related to the Charitable Campaign is displayed for informational purposes only and the customers are advised to do an independent verification, including accepting the terms and conditions of the relevant charitable organisation, before taking any action in this regard. Any such contribution is purely voluntary. The relevant charitable organisation shall be solely responsible for ass aspects of the contribution, including issuance of contribution certificates, if any.
As part of the advertising/ marketing/ visibility campaigns, third parties including brands/ advertisers / sponsors may run banners/ sampling schemes/ contests/ flyers/ freebies distribution/ other such promotional campaigns on/ via the Blinkit Platform/ Blinkit. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, You agree that to the fullest extent permitted under law, Blinkit shall not have any liability in relation to such campaigns (including contests/ contest rewards), which shall be a bipartite arrangement between you and the third parties, including with respect to fulfilment of obligations as specified thereunder. Participation in such campaigns, accessing any embedded third party link, scanning codes and/ or availing services pursuant to such campaigns shall be at your own risk and additionally, be governed by the terms and conditions of the campaigns and of the relevant third parties.
Blinkit makes no representation or warranty of any kind, either express or implied, with respect to such campaigns (including contest / contest rewards). The third parties shall be solely responsible for fulfilment thereto.
Disclaimers
You acknowledge and agree that the Blinkit Platform and the Services are provided "as is" and "as available" and that your use of the Blinkit Platform and the Services shall be at your sole risk. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Blinkit, its group companies, affiliates, and their respective directors, employees, officers, agents and representatives (“
Blinkit Parties
”) disclaim all warranties, express or implied, in connection with the Blinkit Platform and the Services and your use of them. To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, Blinkit make no warranties or representations that the Blinkit Platform and the Services have been and will be provided with accuracy or completeness of the content and assume no responsibility for any (i) errors, mistakes, or inaccuracies of content on the Blinkit Platform or the Services, (ii) personal injury or property damage, of any nature whatsoever, resulting from your access to and use of the the Blinkit Platform and the Services, (iii) any unauthorized access to or use of Blinkit servers and/or any and all personal information stored therein, (iv) any interruption or cessation of transmission to or from the Blinkit Platform, (v) any bugs, viruses, trojan horses, or the like which may be transmitted to or through the the Blinkit Platform or through the actions of any third party, (vi) any loss of your data or content from the Blinkit Platform and/or (vii) any errors or omissions in any content or for any loss or damage of any kind incurred as a result of the use of any content posted, emailed, transmitted, or otherwise made available via the the Blinkit Platform. Any material downloaded or otherwise obtained through the use of the Blinkit Platform is done at your own discretion and risk and you will be solely responsible for any damage to your computer system or other device or loss of data that results from the download of any such material. The Blinkit Parties will not be a party to or in any way be responsible for monitoring any transaction between you and third party providers of products or services/ Third Party Sellers. You are solely responsible for all of your communications and interactions with other customers of the Services and the Blinkit Platform and with other persons with whom you communicate or interact as a result of your use of the Services and the Blinkit Platform. No advice or information, whether oral or written, obtained by you from Blinkit or through or from the Services and the Blinkit Platform shall create any warranty, if not expressly stated in the terms. Unless you have been expressly authorized to do so in writing by Blinkit, you agree that in using the Services and the Blinkit Platform, you will not use any trade mark, service mark, trade name, logo of any company or organization in a way that is likely or intended to cause confusion about the owner or authorized user of such marks, names or logos.
You acknowledge and undertake that you are using your best and prudent judgement before entering into any transactions. Blinkit makes best efforts to display available products, including in respect of their colour, size, shape and appearance, as accurately as possible. However, as the same are representative, the actual color, size, shape and appearance may have variations from the depiction on your mobile/computer/ display screen.
To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, Blinkit does not make any representation or warranties in respect of the products/ services (including digital goods) available on the Blinkit Platform nor does Blinkit implicitly or explicitly support or endorse the sale or purchase of any such products/ services on the Blinkit Platform, including relating to availability, usability, redemption or acceptance of such products on any other platform. Blinkit accepts no liability for any error, inaccuracy or omission of third parties or for information/inputs received from third parties and provided to you through the Blinkit Platform or otherwise. To clarify, the terms and conditions of the Third-Party Sellers/ issuer/ brand of products (including digital goods such as software/ gift cards/ vouchers) shall apply to you in addition to these Terms. Blinkit does not have any control over the merchantability and fitness of any product/ service for a particular purpose and is not responsible for damages or delays on account of products which are out of stock or unavailable. Blinkit makes no warranties or covenants, on behalf of any third party.
Delivery Partners
We facilitate delivery of orders placed on the Blinkit Platform through independent contractors, i.e. delivery partners, on a principal-to-principal basis. For abundant clarity, the delivery partners are neither employees nor agents of Blinkit/ its affiliates/Third Party Sellers, and they are purely associated with Blinkit/ its affiliates/ Third Party Sellers as independent service providers on a principal-to-principal basis and are not exclusively bound by Blinkit/its affiliates/ Third Party Sellers to provide delivery services at any given point. To clarify, there exists no principal – agent relation between Blinkit/ its affiliates/ Third Party Sellers and the delivery partner, and as such, Blinkit /its affiliates/ Third Party Sellers, in no case whatsoever, can be held liable for the act(s)/ omission(s) of the delivery partner.
You are expected to respect the dignity and diversity of delivery partners and also enable provision of a secure and fearless gig/ platform work environment for the delivery partners including prevention and deterrence of harassment (including sexual harassment) towards delivery partners. We reserve the right to withhold your access to the Blinkit Platform and otherwise limit your access to the Blinkit Platform at our absolute discretion if you behave with a delivery partner in a manner which is discourteous, disrespectful, or abusive, or which otherwise may be deemed to be inappropriate or unlawful. You are expected to treat all delivery partners with courtesy and respect. The consequences of any such inappropriate action of yours, including claims made/ compensation claimed by any delivery partner, shall be to your account entirely.
Customer Comments, Reviews, Ratings
"Comments"
will include (but is not limited to) reviews, feedback, images, photos, audio, video, location data, nearby places, and all other forms of information including any ‘Synthetically Generated Information’ (which inter-alia includes any audio, video, or images artificially created or altered to appear real) or data, your comments, content that you upload, share or transmit to, in connection with the Services/ goods/ services, such as likes, ratings, messages, chat communication, profile information, or any other materials that you share over the Blinkit Platform or otherwise, publicly display or displayed in your account profile. All Comments shared, disclosed, submitted, published or offered on the Blinkit Platform or otherwise disclosed, published, submitted or offered in connection with use of the Blinkit Platform/Services shall be and remain the property of Blinkit. In consideration of availing the Services on the Blinkit Platform and by submitting your Comments, you hereby irrevocably grant the Blinkit Parties a perpetual, irrevocable, world-wide, non-exclusive, fully paid and royalty-free, assignable, sub-licensable and transferable license and right to use/ publish/ display the Comments and all intellectual property rights therein for any purpose including advertisements and marketing. By "use" we mean use, copy, display, distribute, translate, reformat, publish, share, incorporate into advertisements/ marketing and other works, analyse, promote, commercialize, create derivative works, and in the case of third party services, allow users and others to do the same. You grant us the right to use the name or username that you submit in connection with Comment(s). You irrevocably waive, and cause to be waived, any claims and assertions of moral rights or attribution with respect to Comments brought against Blinkit or its Customers, any third party services and their users.
In case you are uploading audio/ videos/ photos/ images as part of the Comments, you shall at all times ensure the following:
It should be clear and focused, relevant to the product/ service which is being reviewed and clicked directly by you.
It should not contain any
Prohibited Content
/ any promotional content.
Blinkit will be entitled to use, reproduce, disclose, adapt, create derivative works from any Comments, and publish, display and distribute any Comments submitted for any purpose whatsoever without restriction. Blinkit is and shall be under no obligation to: (a) maintain any Comments in confidence; or (b) pay compensation for any Comments or use of any Comments; or (c) respond to any Comments. You agree that any Comments will not violate the Terms or any right of any third party, including copyright, trademark, privacy or other personal or proprietary right(s), and will not cause injury to any person or entity.
You hereby confirm that you will be solely responsible for your Comments and hereby confirm that your Comments does not contain any personal, confidential, secretive or any proprietary information of yourself or of any third party. You further agree that no Comments will be or contain libellous or otherwise unlawful, threatening, abusive or obscene material, or contain software viruses, political campaigning, commercial solicitation, chain letters, mass mails or any form of ‘spam’. You agree not to upload and/ or submit any Comments that falls within the parameters of
Prohibited Content
. Blinkit reserves the right to monitor, not publish, and/or remove any Comments submitted on the Blinkit Platform. You hereby grant Blinkit the right to use names, that you submit in connection with any Comments along with the Comments with no obligation of confidentiality with respect to such Comments. Blinkit shall be free to use the Comments on an unrestricted basis. You agree not to use a false email address, impersonate any person or entity, or otherwise mislead as to the origin of any Comments you submit. You are, and shall remain, responsible for the content of any Comments you make and you agree to indemnify the Blinkit Parties against all claims, loss and liabilities resulting from any Comments you submit.
You agree and confirm that you are the sole author of, own, or otherwise control all of the rights of your Comments or have been granted explicit permission from the rights holder to submit the Comments, the Comments are not copied from or based in whole or in part on any other content, work, or website neither is your Comment submitted via the use of any automated process such as a script bot, use of your Comment(s) by us, third party services, and our and any third party users will not violate or infringe any rights of yours or any third party; Your Comment is truthful and accurate; and your Comment does not violate the or any applicable laws. In addition to the abovementioned, if your Comment(s) is a review, the same reflects an actual experience that you had.
You hereby confirm that you were not paid or otherwise remunerated in connection with your authoring or posting of the Comment and neither you had no financial, competitive, or other personal incentive to author or post a Comment that was not a fair expression of your honest opinion.
You assume all risks associated with your Comment, including anyone's reliance on its quality, accuracy, or reliability, or any disclosure by you of information in your Comment that makes you personally identifiable. While We reserve the right to remove Comment(s), we do not control actions or reviews posted by our customer(s) and do not guarantee the accuracy, integrity or quality of any Comment/ content. You acknowledge and agree that Comment posted by customer(s) and any and all liability arising from such content is the sole responsibility of the customer(s) who posted the Comment/ content, and not Blinkit.
We reserve the right, at any time and without prior notice, to remove, block, or disable access to any Comment or content that we, for any reason or no reason, consider to be objectionable, in violation of the Terms or otherwise harmful to the Services or our Customers. Subject to the requirements of applicable law, we are not obligated to return any of Your Comment or content to you under any circumstances.
While We reserve the right to remove Comments, We do not control actions or Comments posted by you and do not guarantee the accuracy, integrity or quality of Comments. You acknowledge and agree that Comments posted by customer(s) and any and all liability arising from such Comments is the sole responsibility of the customer(s) who posted the content, and not Blinkit.
Third party content, including content posted by customer(s)/ Comments, does not reflect the view/ opinion of Blinkit. We assume no responsibility or liability for any of your content/ Comment or any third party content. Any reliance placed on the Comments from a third party/ other users shall be at your sole risk and expense. Blinkit receives multiple reviews or ratings for products/ services/ sellers by Customers, which reflect the opinions of the Customers. It is pertinent to state that each and every review posted on Blinkit is the personal opinion of the Customer/reviewer only. The advertisements published on the Blinkit Platform are independent of the reviews received by such advertisers.
We are a neutral platform and we don't arbitrate disputes between Third Party Sellers and the reviewers, however in case if someone writes a review that the Third Party Sellers does not consider to be true, the best option for the Third Party Sellers representative would be to contact the reviewer or post a public response in order to clear up any misunderstandings. If the Third Party Sellers believes that any particular Customer's review violates any of Blinkit’s policies, the Third Party Sellers may write to us at
[email protected]
and bring such violation to our attention. Blinkit may remove the review in its sole discretion if review is in violation of the Terms, or otherwise harmful to the Services.
Customer Feedback
If you share or send any ideas, suggestions, changes or documents regarding Blinkit’s existing business ("
Feedback
"), you agree that (i) your Feedback does not contain the confidential, secretive or proprietary information of third parties, (ii) Blinkit is under no obligation of confidentiality with respect to such Feedback, and shall be free to use the Feedback on an unrestricted basis (iii) Blinkit may have already received similar Feedback from some other customer(s) or it may be under consideration or in development, and (iv) By providing the Feedback, you grant us a binding, non-exclusive, royalty-free, perpetual, global license to use, develop, publish, distribute and sublicense the Feedback, and you irrevocably waive, against Blinkit and its Customers any claims/assertions, whatsoever of any nature, with regard to such Feedback.
Please provide only specific Feedback on Blinkit's existing products; do not include any ideas that Blinkit's policy will not permit it to accept or consider.
Notwithstanding the abovementioned clause, Blinkit or any of its employees do not accept or consider unsolicited ideas, including ideas for new advertising campaigns, new promotions, new or improved products or technologies, product enhancements, processes, materials, marketing plans or new product names. Please do not submit any unsolicited ideas, original creative artwork, suggestions or other works ("
Submissions
") in any form to Blinkit or any of its employees.
The purpose of this policy is to avoid potential misunderstandings or disputes when Blinkit's products or marketing strategies might seem similar to ideas submitted to Blinkit. If, despite our request to not send us your ideas, you still submit them, then regardless of what your letter says, the following terms shall apply to your Submissions.
You agree that: (1) your Submissions and their contents will automatically become the property of Blinkit, without any compensation to you; (2) Blinkit may use or redistribute the Submissions and their contents for any purpose and in any way; (3) there is no obligation for Blinkit to review the Submission; and (4) there is no obligation to keep any Submissions confidential.
Intellectual Property
Blinkit/  brand /Third Party Sellers/ partners (as the case may be) expressly reserve all intellectual property rights in all text, programs, products, processes, technology, images, content and other materials which appear on the Blinkit Platform (“
Intellectual Property
”). Access to or use of the Blinkit Platform does not confer and should not be considered as conferring upon anyone any license, sub-license to any Intellectual Property. All rights, including copyright, in and to the Blinkit Platform are owned by or licensed to Blinkit. Any use of the Blinkit Platform or Intellectual Property or its contents, including copying or storing it or them in whole or part is prohibited without the express prior written consent of Blinkit.
You may not modify, distribute or re-post anything on/ from the Blinkit Platform for any purpose. The names and logos and all related product and service names, design marks and slogans are the trademarks/service marks of Blinkit, its group companies/ affiliates, brand/ its partners or sellers/suppliers/service providers. All other marks are the property of their respective owners. No trademark or service mark license is granted in connection with the materials contained on the Blinkit Platform. Access to or use of the Blinkit Platform does not authorize anyone to use any name, logo or mark in any manner. References on the Blinkit Platform to any names, marks, products or services of third parties or hypertext links to third party sites or information are provided solely as a convenience to you after having express consent from third parties and do not in any way constitute or imply Blinkit’s endorsement, sponsorship or recommendation of the third party, the information, its product or services.
Blinkit Platform may display third party content (including embedded content) or links to third party web pages, content, applications, products and services, including advertisements and promotions (collectively, “
Third Party Content
”) as a service to those interested in this information. We do not control, endorse, adopt, screen or investigate any Third Party Content, including that the inclusion of any link does not imply affiliation, endorsement or adoption by Blinkit of any site or any information contained therein, and can make no guarantee as to its accuracy or completeness. You acknowledge and agree that we are not responsible or liable in any manner for any Third Party Content and undertake no responsibility to update or review such Third Party Content.
Blinkit is not responsible for the content of any third party sites and does not make any representations regarding the content or accuracy of material on such sites. If you decide to access a link of any third party website and/ or avail any service pursuant to the same, you do so entirely at your own risk and expense.
Report Intellectual Property Rights Infringement
Blinkit respects the intellectual property(ies) of other entities. If you believe that your intellectual property rights have been violated/used in any manner which results in infringement, then please inform us at
[email protected]
.
We will evaluate the contents of your notice and will respond within a reasonable period of time. We may take such action as we deem appropriate in keeping with applicable law and our policies, we may also reach out to you for additional details. It may be noted that reporting inaccurate, false or misleading information to Blinkit may result in civil and/or criminal liability.
You agree to indemnify Blinkit for all claims brought by a third party(ies) against Blinkit arising out of or in connection with the submission of your email.
Privacy Policy
Blinkit respects your privacy and values the trust you place in it. Blinkit’s ‘Privacy Policy’
https://blinkit.com/privacy
details the manner in which information relating to you is collected, used and disclosed. Customers are advised to read and understand our Privacy Policy carefully, as by accessing the Blinkit Platform you agree to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Privacy Policy and consent to the collection, storage and use of information relating to you as provided herein.
Our Privacy Policy shall be deemed to have been incorporated into these Terms by reference, and is subject to change from time to time.
Information Disclosure
To protect against the loss, misuse and alteration of the information under its control, Blinkit has in place appropriate physical, electronic and managerial procedures. Although Blinkit endeavours to safeguard the confidentiality of your personally identifiable information, transmissions made by means of the internet cannot be made fully secure. By using the Blinkit Platform, you agree that Blinkit will have no liability for disclosure of your information due to errors in transmission and/or unauthorized acts of third parties.
Call Recording: All calls between you and us (including between you and the delivery partners/ service providers) (directly or indirectly through a third party) may be recorded by us or the third party engaged by us. All such calls may be recorded including for internal training and quality purposes by us and/or any third party appointed by us. You explicitly agree and permit Blinkit and the third party engaged by Blinkit, to record all the calls with you and to share it with our authorized personnel / delivery partners and relevant third parties for the purposes set out above.
You also explicitly agree and permit Blinkit to share any data (including call recordings) related to you with its group companies/ affiliates and/or the relevant third parties/ governmental/ regulatory authorities, if required under any law.
Misrepresentation
Blinkit shall assume no responsibility for any communication not authorised by Blinkit with respect to any offers, promotions, housefull sale, etc. This includes, but is not limited to, any fraud or misrepresentation caused by any third party administrators resulting in loss or injury to the user. Users are cautioned that Blinkit does not run any call centre, and does not make available for communication any landline/mobile number/email ID/social media channel/any other electronic means to its users, except as specifically set out in these Terms and to that end, you are cautioned against unauthorised persons/ fraudsters and imposters claiming to be calling/ answering on Blinkit’s behalf. In case any user wishes to communicate, the user may communicate at the following/email apart from the faster In app Chat option: Email:
[email protected]
;
[email protected]
Attention: Mr. Dhananjay Shashidharan
Please note: Blinkit does not solicit confidential information such as OTP/CVV/PIN NUMBER/Card number either through call or mail or any other means, neither will Blinkit ask you to share any sensitive data or information via email or telephone. If you receive any such request by email or telephone, please do not respond/divulge any sensitive data or information. Please do not reveal these details to fraudsters and imposters claiming to be calling on Blinkit’s behalf.
Please report suspicious activities to
[email protected]
.
You Understand, Agree & Confirm
That you shall be solely responsible for providing the correct delivery details, including recipient name, address, contact details, etc. and making the payments against all orders placed through your account, whether for delivery to your own address or someone else’s address. Blinkit shall not have any liability/ obligation in this respect (including accepting any refund/ order cancellation requests).
That if any service/ product delivery is delayed or is returned from its destination (including as a result of you providing incorrect name or address or other incorrect/misleading information or recipient’s unavailability or refusal to accept the order at the time of delivery), Blinkit shall not be liable for the same/ responsible to make re-delivery. Any costs incurred by Blinkit in this respect shall be borne by you.
That while Blinkit makes best endeavors to ensure that products/services are delivered to you within the period reflected at the time of placing the order, Blinkit does not make any representation, guarantee or warranty in relation to the delivery time as the estimated delivery time may be changed without notice and there could be delays for reasons beyond the reasonable control of Blinkit such as availability of third party delivery service providers, demand, traffic and weather conditions, a force majeure event, the location provided by the customer(s), the customer(s) being unresponsive on call, user’s building norms, delivery partner(s)/ service providers facing any on-ground challenges (including any issues with their delivery vehicles, society providing entry to them without any hassles or delays) etc.
That the order will ordinarily be delivered when a person is able to receive the order at the address provided by you. You shall be solely responsible for the products in case you direct the delivery partner to leave the same at your doorstep and/or handover the same to any other person. In such cases, you shall not claim any amount/refund from Blinkit in case of any loss/damage to/deficiency in any products/Service. You expressly disclaim Blinkit from all the liabilities which may arise by virtue of the order being left unattended for a period of time. This includes but is not limited to theft, tampering, contamination, and the result of any change in temperature of the products.
That in case of cash on delivery orders placed through your account (whether for your own address or some other/ someone else’s address), it shall be your sole responsibility and obligation to make the cash amount payment/ ensure that such payment is made and further ensure that the same is accurate (i.e. neither less nor additional cash amount is paid to the delivery partners/ service providers). We shall not be liable for any discrepancy in this respect.
That you will use the products/ services for lawful purposes only, and comply with all applicable laws and regulations while using/accessing and transacting on the Blinkit Platform.
That you will provide authentic and true information in all instances where any information is requested of you. Blinkit reserves the right to confirm and validate the information and other details provided by you at any point of time.
That if at any time, the information provided by you is found to be false or inaccurate (wholly or partly), Blinkit shall have the right in its sole discretion to reject registration, cancel all orders, and debar you from using its Services and other affiliated services in the future without any prior intimation whatsoever, and without any liability to you.
That you are accessing the Blinkit Platform and transacting at your sole risk and are using your best and prudent judgement before entering into any transaction through the Blinkit Platform.
That transactions through the Blinkit Platform may be subject to delivery charges, handling charges, convenience charges, platform charges, small cart charges, high demand surge charges, rain surge charge, print charges, gift charges, or such other fees/charges as may be levied from time to time (“
Service Charges
”)t. You shall be informed of such Service Charges prior to placing your order on the Blinkit Platform at the stage of check-out. By placing the order, you agree to pay such amount. Service Charges may vary from order to order, which may be determined on multiple factors such as order/ cart value, distance, time of the day, time taken, demand for delivery, real time analysis of traffic and weather conditions, seasonal peaks or such other parameters as may be determined from time to time. Further, Blinkit may from time to time offer to the customers credits, discounts, promo codes, vouchers or any other form of cashback that it may decide at its discretion. Blinkit reserves the right to modify, convert, cancel and/or discontinue such credits, promo codes or vouchers, as it may deem fit.
Prices displayed on the platform for product combinations ("combos") are inclusive of all applicable taxes in line with prevailing GST laws and rates. Each item within a combo is treated as an independent supply unless explicitly stated otherwise. Please refer to your tax invoice for a detailed item-wise breakdown, including individual item values, applicable discounts (if any), and taxes.
For every transaction on Blinkit Platform, you may receive one or more separate invoices for the sale of products / supply of services / applicable service charges as may be allocated by Blinkit based on the value of products in your cart provided the aggregate of all such service charges reflected under multiple invoices shall not exceed the Service Charge as displayed on the Blinkit Platform at the time of Order placement.
In case your cart contains product(s), required to be picked up from more than one store, the same will not have any bearing on the  Service Charges displayed on the cart and shall be allocated to deliveries fulfilled from the nearest store.
That before placing an order, you acknowledge to have checked and reviewed the product/ service description carefully and in sufficient detail, and be bound by the conditions of sale/ supply without exception.
That by using the Blinkit Platform or any Services, you may encounter content that may be deemed by some to be offensive, indecent, or objectionable, which content may or may not be identified as such. You agree to use the Blinkit Platform and any Service at your sole risk and that to the fullest extent permitted under applicable law, the Blinkit Parties shall have no liability to you for any content that may be deemed offensive, indecent, or objectionable to you.
Blinkit is constantly evolving in order to provide the best possible experience and information to its customers. You acknowledge and agree that the form and nature of the Services which Blinkit provides, may require affecting certain changes in it, therefore, Blinkit reserves the right to suspend/cancel, or discontinue any or all products or services at any time without notice, make modifications and alterations in any or all of its contents, products and services contained on the Blinkit Platform without any prior notice.
We, the software, or the software application store that makes the software available for download may include functionality to automatically check for updates or upgrades to the software. Unless your device, its settings, or computer software does not permit transmission or use of upgrades or updates, you agree that we, or the applicable software or software application store, may provide notice to you of the availability of such upgrades or updates and automatically push such upgrade or update to your device or computer from time-to-time. You may be required to install certain upgrades or updates to the software in order to continue to access or use the Services, or portions thereof (including upgrades or updates designed to correct issues with the Services). Any updates or upgrades provided to you by us under the Terms shall be considered part of the Services.
In our effort to continuously improve the Blinkit Platform and Services, we undertake research and conduct experiments from time to time on various aspects of the Services and offerings, including our apps, websites, user interface and promotional campaigns. As a result of which, some customers may experience features differently than others at any given time. This is for making the Blinkit Platform better, more convenient and easy to use, improving customer experience, enhancing the safety and security of our services and offerings and developing new services and features.
That for any content and/or Comment you upload, you will accurately and truthfully declare whether it is Synthetically Generated Information when prompted. In case you provide any false or misleading declaration, it will be deemed to be a material breach of these Terms.
That Blinkit reserves the right to
deploy technical measures to verify the accuracy of your declarations, and / or apply a permanent label or audio disclosure to any content and/or Comment verified as Synthetically Generated Information;
immediately remove content and/or Comment or disable access and suspend or terminate your account without prior notice for any violation;
disclose your identity and user details to the complainant in cases where the complainant is a victim (or acting on behalf of a victim) of unlawful Synthetically Generated Information created or shared by you, as required by applicable law.
Taxes on your Order
In respect of the order placed by you on the Blinkit Platform, documents like order summary, tax invoices, etc. as mandated per the applicable law and common business practices shall be issued. Your order may have the following components and corresponding documents:
Sale of goods - Tax invoice cum bill of supply issued by/ on behalf of the relevant seller.
Supply of services  - Tax invoice issued by / on behalf of the relevant service provider.
In the event that the same person/entity supplies the goods and the services ("Bundled Transaction"), (i) GST will be applied on the Bundled Transaction as a composite supply of goods and services and the (ii) tax invoice cum bill of supply will be issued by/on behalf of such person/entity.
MRP displayed on the platform is as printed on the product package. Actual MRP and amount payable may be a function of offers/ discounts and/ or the revised GST rates made effective by Govt. from 22 Sep 2025 onwards
The above documents can be seen on the order summary page once the goods have been delivered to you.
You acknowledge and agree that entitlement to any GST benefits with respect to eligible products/services purchased through Blinkit Platform shall be subject to the GST terms and conditions (in addition to these Terms) and submission of valid GST number by you, as displayed and required at the time of order placement on the Blinkit Platform. Not all products/ services are eligible for a GST invoice. Such GST terms and conditions shall be deemed to have been incorporated into these Terms by reference, and is subject to change from time to time.
Order Cancellation
You acknowledge that (a) your cancellation, or attempted or purported cancellation of an order or (b) cancellation due to reasons not attributable to Blinkit, shall amount to your breach of the Terms and any such request shall be permitted subject to acceptance of the same by Blinkit. For any permitted cancellations, we will initiate a refund, if any, against the relevant product/ order, which may be in the form of promotional codes/ coupons which shall be available for use against a subsequent invoice for transactions on the Blinkit Platform, in accordance with the specified terms, if any, such as validity period.
Orders may be cancelled by Blinkit in any of the following cases: (a) if it is suspected that a customer has undertaken a fraudulent transaction, or (b) if it is suspected that a customer has undertaken a transaction which does not conform to or violates these Terms, or (c) in case of unavailability of product(s), or (d) for any reason outside the control of Blinkit, including technical errors, causes for delivery-related logistical difficulties. For such cancellations, Blinkit will initiate a refund, if any, against the relevant product/ order, within approximately 72 hours.
Further, Blinkit aims to ensure that availability status, specifications and prices of all products / services offered for sale are true and correct. While precautions are taken to ensure accuracy thereof, at times, the specifications / prices may not be current or may be inaccurate on account of technical issues, typographical errors or incorrect product/service information provided to Blinkit by Third-Party Sellers and in such an event, you shall be notified as soon as such error comes to the notice of Blinkit. In each such case, notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Blinkit reserves the right to cancel the order and initiate a refund, if any, against the relevant order/product in the form of credit/ cashback/ coupon/ promotional codes for the value of the relevant product/ order which shall be available for use against a subsequent invoice for transactions on the Blinkit Platform, in accordance with the specified terms, if any, such as validity period.
We reserve the right to deny access to non-complying users / users that appear to be involved in fraudulent transactions at any time or cancel any orders placed by them in future.
Returns & Refunds
Products once delivered/ services once fulfilled are non-returnable/ non-replaceable/ non-exchangeable/ non-refundable, save and except: (a) if the product is damaged, defective, expired at the time of delivery or incorrectly delivered, and (b) if the return/ refund/ replace/ exchange policy listed/ displayed with respect to the relevant product/ service expressly and specifically permits the same under specified circumstances – if so, the return/ refund/ replacement/ exchange requests shall be processed in accordance with the terms of the relevant policy, including the specified timelines and conditions. You are requested to read the relevant policy of each product/ service as available on the Blinkit Platform before placing the order and further raising any request for return/ exchange or refund. You will be required to share proof of the issue (including images/ video) before any resolution can be provided. No refunds will be permitted for products/ services  that could not be delivered/ fulfilled due to reasons attributable to the customers/ users including incorrect location provided by the customer(s), the customer(s) being unresponsive on call, user’s building norms/ society restrictions, etc.
For digital goods (including gift cards/ vouchers), no return/ refund shall apply, and you are required to connect with the relevant issuer/ sellers in case of any issues including but not limited to, validity, usage restrictions and/ or redemption related issues. For any such issues, please refer to the issuer/ sellers’ terms and conditions that apply to you in addition to these Terms.
All refunds for permitted returns and permitted cancellations will be processed within 7 working days from the date of return/ cancellation approval of the product subject to satisfactory checks.
Unless otherwise stated and/or as mutually agreed between Blinkit and the Customer, for payments made through electronic means such as debit card, credit card, net banking, UPI, etc., refunds shall be processed in the same manner as they are received or provided in the form of credit/ cashback/ coupon/ promotional code which shall be available for use against a subsequent invoice for transactions on the Blinkit Platform, in accordance with the specified terms, if any, such as validity period. Refund amount in the form of credits will reflect in Your account based on respective banks policies. Provided that, refunds, if any, for products purchased on cash on delivery basis shall be refunded by way of promotional codes only which shall expire after 30 days from the date of issuance. Users can opt-in for a promotional code refund for online payments as well. Refunds cannot be transferred back to any other payment method once the credit/ cashback/ coupon/ promotional code is initiated. All other promotional codes issued shall expire within 7 days from the date of its issuance.
All refunds shall be made in Indian Rupees only.
Blinkit Cashback
Cashback shall mean the grant of credit for the amount of eligible cashback, which shall be added to and reflected on the user’s account, and shall in no event imply that the cashback shall be credited to a user’s bank account or card account or refunded in cash at any time.
Cashback will be either transactional or promotional. A user will be entitled to Cashback only as specified by Blinkit.
No Cashback shall be available for orders which are cancelled. Any Cashback offered may be recovered by Blinkit, without notice to the user, in such cases. Any Cashback offered for orders for which a refund claim is made, whether in part or in full, shall be adjusted to remove Cashback attributable to the extent of the order refunded. This condition shall apply strictly and notwithstanding the display of cashback on any specific item(s) listed on the Blinkit Platform as an item specific cashback.
Blinkit reserves the right to, without liability or prejudice to any of its other rights, at any time, without previous notice and from time to time, withdraw/suspend / amend/cancel the Cashback offers, and the terms applicable thereto.
Any kind of transactional and/or promotional Cashback will reflect in a user’s Blinkit account within approximately 24-48 hours; however, for some coupons it can take 7 working days from the delivery of the order for the cashback to reflect. The validity period thereof shall be 90 days and 60 days for transactional and promotional Cashback respectively from the date of credit, unless a different time period is specified by Blinkit.
Blinkit does not in any manner endorse or support or promote, in any specific manner, the purchase of products or undertaking of transactions inter alia which are subject to Cashback.
Cashback and discount codes may not be applicable on certain products/ services, as may be determined by Blinkit, from time to time.
EMI on Credit and Debit Cards
The following terms and conditions (“
EMI Terms
”) will apply to all transactions made using equated monthly instalments (“
EMI
”) facility on the Blinkit Platform and shall be in addition to and not in substitution of or derogation to the other terms and conditions governing the use/access of the Blinkit Platform. By opting for the EMI facility, customers (“You”) agree to be bound by these EMI Terms.
You may opt for EMI payment method on purchases of values acceptable to the issuing bank made on the Blinkit Platform, subject to availability of EMI facility from your issuing bank.
You agree and acknowledge that the EMI facility is not available on purchases made using UPI, net banking, prepaid payment instruments, buy now pay later options or cash on delivery methods.
You can combine multiple products from  sellers or brands on the Blinkit Platform, into a single purchase and convert such purchase into an EMI.
You agree and acknowledge that the EMI facility is being offered by the respective issuing banks to you and Blinkit has no role to play in the approval, extension, pricing (including any applicable taxes), modification, pre-closure, closure, repayment or any matter incidental thereto pertaining to offering of the EMI facility, which is decided at the sole discretion of the respective issuing bank.
You agree and acknowledge to be governed by the respective terms and conditions of the issuing bank offering the EMI facility and you agree to contact such bank in case of any complaint, dispute or enquiry about the EMI facility or any EMI transaction.
On a best effort basis, Blinkit displays representative EMI related information for your purchase on the Blinkit Platform as per the information shared with Blinkit by the respective issuing banks on an "as is" basis. You agree and acknowledge that the issuing banks are the authoritative source of this information and you agree that you shall directly contact the respective issuing bank for any clarifications/questions on the EMI facility. You agree that Blinkit shall not be held accountable for any dispute arising out of or in connection with the EMI facility being offered by the respective issuing banks including but not limited to the authenticity and/or accuracy of the EMI facility’s information supplied by such banks to Blinkit for displaying on the Blinkit Platform.
In the event that you cancel an order before the issuing bank converts such purchase into an EMI, you will be entitled to a full refund. However, in the event that you cancel the order after the EMI has been created and processed by the issuing bank, the applicable fee of the respective issuing bank as well as the relevant applicable taxes shall not be refunded back to you.
You understand and confirm that you shall be liable to pay the total value of the order at the time of payment in accordance with the terms applicable to the payment method, i.e., debit card or credit card. Such amount shall be converted to EMI by your issuing bank in accordance with respective internal policies.
Blinkit does not charge you any processing or convenience fee for the purpose of facilitating the EMI facility.
You agree and acknowledge that Blinkit reserves the right to stop facilitating the EMI facility on the Blinkit Platform without any prior notice and/or amend these EMI Terms at its discretion.
Any issuing bank related particular terms and conditions shall be informed to you at the time of availing the EMI facility by way of a push notification, hyperlink, SMS, email or any other written format, either by Blinkit or the respective issuing bank.
You acknowledge and agree that Blinkit shall merely facilitate the EMI options offered by banks and shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for any aspects of the EMI including restructuring, refund/return, foreclosure, etc.
No cost EMI on Credit Cards (“No Cost EMI Offer”)
You understand that by availing this No Cost EMI Offer, you will get an upfront discount equal to the EMI interest cost charged by the respective issuing bank, making it effectively no interest cost EMI.
You agree and acknowledge that all applicable taxes on interest and any other charges on the No Cost EMI Offer will be levied by the respective issuing bank.
You agree and acknowledge that the discount under this No Cost EMI Offer will be applicable only on opting for 'No Cost EMI on Credit Card' option.
You agree and acknowledge that the No Cost EMI Offer shall not be deemed as a waiver of the EMI interest by the issuing banks.
You agree and understand that this No Cost EMI Offer may not be available on all products listed on the Blinkit Platform.
You understand that the No Cost EMI Offer shall be applicable as per the directions and the discretion of the issuing bank.
You agree and acknowledge that Blinkit will have no obligation or liability in the event the respective bank refuses or fails to process the No Cost EMI Offer for any reason whatsoever.
You understand and acknowledge that in the event you fail to make timely payments of the EMI to the issuing bank, there may be additional interests/penalty which may be levied by the respective bank which may be higher than the discount offered under this No Cost EMI Offer. You further acknowledge that Blinkit shall not be responsible or liable for any non-payment or delayed payment of the EMI by you.
You agree and acknowledge that in case of any kind of return/refund in the EMI facility, interest already billed in a particular transaction will not be refundable to you under any circumstances whatsoever.
You agree and acknowledge that the respective bank may charge processing/cancellation charges as per the bank’s policy. You agree to bear and pay all such charges.
You agree and acknowledge that Blinkit reserves the right to modify or cancel this No Cost EMI Offer at any time, including for reasons attributable to changes/modifications made by Third-Party Sellers or brands extending such No Cost EMI Offer.
Promotional Terms
These additional terms apply to promotional campaigns live on the Blinkit Platform from time to time (“
Promo
Offer
”). Users who place orders on Blinkit and satisfy eligibility criteria set forth by Blinkit or its collaboration partners for the specific promotional campaign shall be termed as
“Eligible Customer(s)”
.
Promo Offers shall run for the duration decided by Blinkit, at its sole discretion and may be prematurely revoked without prior notice.
If the Promo Offer is based on a minimum order value/specific to a product category, the Promo Offer will stand cancelled if the products are returned by the Eligible Customer or for which refund is given by Blinkit or if the order for such products are cancelled by the Eligible Customer. On or after being provided the benefit/prize of the relevant Promo Offer and availing/redeeming the same, the Eligible Customer acknowledges and agrees that the order placed on the Blinkit Platform cannot be returned and/or refunded.
Blinkit Parties shall not, in any way, be liable for the services provided by third parties upon availing/redeeming the offer/voucher/prize.
Eligible Customers hereby provide their consent to Blinkit to share the Eligible Customer’s contact details (“
Information
”) with Blinkit’s authorised third parties for making the Promo Offer available to such Eligible Customer. Such Information will be governed by the third party’s privacy policy/ies and you are encouraged to acquaint yourself with and agree to their policies before participating in the Promo Offer.
Eligible Customers may only avail the Promo Offer if account settings on the Blinkit Platform have been set to India and the billing address is in India.
Blinkit reserves the absolute right to or alter any of these terms at any time without prior notice.
Promo Offer can neither be sold, transferred, encashed or exchanged for any other products nor clubbed with any other Promo Offer.
Blinkit accepts no liability, whether jointly or severally, for any errors or omissions of any third party in relation to the Promo Offer.
The voucher/prize/benefit details will be sent to the Eligible Customer via e-mail/message/WhatsApp/in-app.
Blinkit, in its sole discretion reserves the right to exclude any Eligible Customer from the Promo Offer and/or to cancel all or part of the Promo Offer, without any liability on its part, if it believes that the Eligible Customer has (a) breached any of these terms, additional promotional activity terms and conditions, Blinkit Platform terms and conditions and/or Privacy Policy; (b) acted or has the intention of acting in a dishonest or fraudulent manner, or in bad faith; (c) tampered with the entry process or the operation of the Promo Offer; (d) acted in a disruptive manner.
By participating in the Promo Offer, Eligible Customers will be deemed to have accepted these terms along with specific promotional activity terms and conditions made available to the Eligible Customer and expressly agree that: (a) Blinkit Parties will not be liable or responsible for any loss or damage whatsoever that the Eligible Customer may suffer, directly or indirectly, in connection with this Promo Offer, including for any theft, loss or misuse of the Promo Offer or the Information; and (b) Blinkit will not mediate any disputes or differences between the Eligible Customer and the third parties in relation to this Promo Offer.
Payment’s Facility and Related Information
All the payments towards the orders and/or any services shall be compulsory in Indian Rupees only.
The information with respect to the accepted payment methods on the Blinkit Platform shall be displayed at the time of making payment for an order which may include but not limited to credit card or debit card; net banking; UPI; cash on delivery or any other RBI approved payment mode as may be reflected on the Blinkit Platform from time to time. Cash on delivery may not be permitted for certain orders.
To facilitate the payments, you acknowledge and agree that Blinkit may use certain third party vendors and service providers, including payment gateways, to process payments and manage payment card information. If you are directed to any third party payment processor, you will be subject to terms and conditions governing use of that third party’s service and we shall have no liability towards the same.
With respect to the payment details provided by you to avail the payment facility, you represent, warrant and covenant that you are legally entitled and/or authorized to provide such payment details and make payments using such payment details. You shall be solely liable for the payments done through payment details and you confirm that use of such payment details by you does not violate any applicable law.
The payment facility provided by Blinkit is neither a banking nor a financial service but is merely a facilitator providing an electronic, automated online electronic payment system, and receiving payment on orders placed at Blinkit Platform using the existing authorized banking infrastructure and card payment gateway networks, as may be applicable.
You agree and confirm that in respect to certain payment methods, the respective issuer may charge you an additional fee i.e. transaction fees or other fees, for the purpose of processing your payment transaction.
Order History
If you delete an order from your order history through your account on the Blinkit Platform, Your order details will no longer be visible to/ accessible by you through your account. To clarify, for orders placed for someone else, your action shall not impact visibility of the order details as accessible through that person’s account, where the order details were available.
You understand that your action shall be irreversible and no support will be offered on such deleted order(s) (whether to you or for orders placed for someone else, that other person) including complaints, retrieval/ information/ invoice request, cancellation, return, replacement, or exchange. Order once deleted will however remain present in Blinkit's records in accordance with the Privacy Policy and be subject to our records retention policies and applicable law, including any statutory retention requirements. Please note that there may be cases beyond the control of Blinkit where the deleted order/ order details may be traced/ be visible, for reasons such as:
any interruptions, service or technology failure or problems in use of the internet and electronic communications or other systems outside the control of Blinkit.
order details still being available on your/ for orders placed for someone else, that person’s email, messages or other modes of communication where the order details were available.
any stakeholder (including third party or delivery partner) reaching out to you through the information you choose to share with them directly.
payment pertaining to such an order being available in bank statements.
International Users
“
International Users
” shall mean such users who have registered on the Blinkit Platform using a permitted mobile number registered outside of India, and wish to avail the Services.
The following terms shall be in addition to and not in substitution of or derogation to the other terms and conditions governing the use/access of Blinkit Platform. Provided that, in case of any inconsistency between these terms and any of the other terms, these terms shall prevail with respect to International Users, to the extent of such inconsistency.
To place an order, you will be required to provide the recipient’s contact details, such as name, phone number registered in India, address or any other information that may be reasonably required to enable us to deliver the order. Deliveries are available to only select geographies in India.
Certain features of the Blinkit Platform may not be available to International Users.
Services may be available to International Users only for certain products/ services listed on the Blinkit Platform. To clarify, not all products/ services may be available for sale and purchase to/ by International Users.
Usage of the Services shall be subject to these Terms and the Privacy Policy of Blinkit.
The following payment methods shall be made available to you on the Blinkit Platform and be displayed at the time of making payment for an order - international cards and such other methods as may be updated by Blinkit on the Blinkit Platform, from time to time. Cash on delivery may not be permitted. For certain payment methods and also for refund processing, additional charges may apply, including foreign currency conversion charges, which shall be borne by you.
Grievance Redressal Mechanism
For any order related issue, you may first reach out to us via chat support on the Blinkit Platform for real time basis resolution.
In accordance with applicable law, including the Information Technology Act, 2000 and the Information Technology (Intermediary Guidelines and Digital Media Ethics Code) Rules, 2021 and the Consumer Protection Act, 2019 and the Consumer Protection (E-Commerce) Rules, 2020 the name and contact details of the Grievance Officer and Nodal Officer who can be contacted for any complaints or concerns pertaining to the Blinkit Platform, including those pertaining to breach of the Terms or any other policies are published as under:
Details of the Grievance Officer
Dhananjay Shashidharan
Blink Commerce Private Limited
Ground Floor, Tower-A, Pioneer Square Building, Sector 62, Golf Course Extension Road, Gurugram-122098, Haryana, India. Email address:
[email protected]
Time: Monday - Friday (09:00 hours to 18:00 hours)
Details of the Nodal Officer
Vikramjit Singh
Blink Commerce Private Limited
Ground Floor, Tower-A, Pioneer Square Building, Sector 62, Golf Course Extension Road, Gurugram-122098, Haryana, India. Email address:
[email protected]
For further information regarding food safety and complaints, visit or access the Food Safety Connect app on Google
play store
for Android and
app store
for iOS.
Indemnity
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold harmless the Blinkit Parties from and against any third party claims, damages (actual and/or consequential), actions, proceedings, demands, losses, liabilities, costs and expenses (including reasonable legal fees) suffered or reasonably incurred by them arising as a result of, or in connection with: (a) Your Comment and/ or content, (b) your unauthorized use of the Blinkit Platform/ Services, or products or services included or advertised in the Services; (c) your access to and use of the Services; (d) your violation of any rights of another party; or (e) your breach of these Terms (including Privacy Policy and any infringement by you of the Intellectual Property or intellectual property rights of any third party) and/ or applicable law. We retain the exclusive right to settle, compromise and pay, without your prior consent, any and all claims or causes of action which are brought against us. We reserve the right, at your expense, to assume the exclusive defense and control of any matter for which you are required to indemnify us and you agree to cooperate with our defense of these claims. You agree not to settle any matter in which we are named as a defendant and/or for which you have indemnity obligations without our prior written consent. We will use reasonable efforts to notify you of any such claim, action or proceeding upon becoming aware of it. This clause shall survive the expiry or termination of these Terms.
Limitation of Liability
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary:
Blinkit Parties shall not be liable for any claims, damages or losses to the customer or any other person other than as established by a non-appealable order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
Subject to the above, the maximum aggregate liability of the Blinkit Parties, if any, as so established and ordered, shall in no event extend beyond refund of the money charged from the relevant user for purchases made pursuant to the relevant order with respect to which such liability has arisen and been established.
Blinkit shall not be liable, under any circumstances, whether in contract or in tort, for any indirect, special, consequential, exemplary, punitive or incidental losses or damages, including on grounds of loss of profit, loss of reputation or loss of business opportunities.
You must commence any legal action against Us within one (1) year after the alleged harm initially occurs. Failure to commence the action within that period shall forever bar any claims or causes of action regarding the same facts or occurrence, notwithstanding any statute of limitations or other law to the contrary. within this period, any failure by Us to enforce or exercise any provision of these Terms or any related right shall not constitute a waiver of that right or provision.
Termination
Blinkit, in its sole discretion and without liability, reserves the right to terminate or refuse your registration, terminate your use of the Blinkit Platform/ Services and/ or refuse to permit/ restrict your usage/access to the Blinkit Platform/ Services, without notice, with or without cause including if Blinkit has reason to believe (including through evaluating usage patterns), whether by notice or otherwise that: (a) you do not conform to the eligibility criteria, or the eligibility criteria is not met/is violated by a user, or (b) you may commit/ be in breach of these Terms (including Privacy Policy). We may immediately deactivate or delete your account and all related information and/or bar any further access to your account or the Services. If you use the Services in violation of these Terms, we may, in our sole discretion, retain all data collected from your use of the Services. Further, you agree that we shall not be liable to you or any third party for the discontinuation or termination of your access to the Services.
You may delete your account at any time by using the option as available on the Blinkit Platform/ App and ceasing further use of the Blinkit Platform/ Services. Your personal data will be processed in accordance with Blinkit’s Privacy Policy as updated from time to time.
Blinkit’s rights to any Comments, indemnification rights and provisions relating to Governing Law and Jurisdiction, shall survive any termination of these Terms. Any such termination of these Terms shall not affect/ waive your obligation to pay for product(s) /services already ordered/availed from the Blinkit Platform or affect any liability that may have arisen or may arise relating to events preceding the date of termination.
Governing Law & Jurisdiction
These Terms shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of India, without giving effect to the principles of conflict of laws thereunder.
Courts at New Delhi shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any proceedings arising in respect of these Terms (including Privacy Policy).
Miscellaneous
Interpretation
: The section and subject headings in these Terms are included for reference only and shall not be used to interpret any provisions of these Terms.
Entire Agreement and Waiver
: The Terms, together with the Privacy Policy, shall constitute the entire agreement between you and us concerning the Services. No failure or delay by us in exercising any right, power or privilege under the Terms shall operate as a waiver of such right or acceptance of any variation of the Terms and nor shall any single or partial exercise by either party of any right, power or privilege preclude any further exercise of that right or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege.
Severability
: If any provision of these Terms is deemed unlawful, invalid, or unenforceable by a judicial court for any reason, then that provision shall be deemed severed from these Terms, and the remainder of the Terms shall continue in full force and effect.
Partnership or Agency
: None of the provisions of these Terms shall be deemed to constitute a partnership or agency between you and Us and you shall have no authority to bind Us in any form or manner, whatsoever.
ADDITIONAL TERMS:
The following terms shall apply in addition to and not in substitution of or derogation to the other terms and conditions governing the use/access of Blinkit Platform.
Specific Additional Terms with respect to purchase of Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products, hookah, rolling papers, and nicotine products
The user agrees and undertakes that:
He/she is at least eighteen (18) years of age or above; and
He/she lives outside the radius of hundred (100) yards from an educational institution.
User will not use the Blinkit Platform to purchase “cigarettes” and other “tobacco products” as defined under the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003 if he/she is below the age of 18 years and/ or lives within the radius of hundred (100) yards from an educational institution or for a person who is below the age of 18 years and/ or lives within the radius of hundred (100) yards from an educational institution.
In addition to the above, in case it is found that user has made a false declaration and/or misrepresented its age to be eligible for placing an Order under this category, Blinkit also reserves a right to take an appropriate action against such user.
Ambulance Services
Blinkit provides a platform for Customers to avail patient transportation & care services, including pick-up, pre-boarding and in-transit care, offboarding & transfer to drop location hospital from third party service providers (“
Ambulance Services
”).
You may place an order for the Ambulance Service for yourself or someone else. If you avail the services for someone else, you warrant and represent that you have obtained the patient/ recipient’s consent to avail the services and provide the recipient’s details and other requisite information for the purposes as set out in these Terms. You shall provide the same in true, accurate and complete form (not misleading). You hereby indemnify and hold the Blinkit Parties and the third party service provider(s), harmless against any losses, damages, claims or disputes by any third party, including the patient/ recipient/ its legal representatives arising in relation to unauthorised usage/ misuse of the Ambulance Services, unauthorised disclosure of information and/or disclosed information being untrue, inaccurate, misleading and/or incomplete thereby resulting in any liability/ consequence, including deterioration of patient’s health.
To avail the Ambulance Services and in the course thereof, you agree to provide your / patient’s details, including name, phone number, pick up address, drop location, medical condition/ medical history (including blood pressure, diabetes, previous surgeries, pre-existing disease, dislocated bone, allergy, etc.), information needed for patient care report, special needs or any other relevant information as required to administer the service/ which could impede the services, in true, accurate and complete form (not misleading), and execute the related deeds/ documents such as consent form, patient care report, etc., as required. You understand that the Ambulance Services (including patient care and Emergency Care Actions) shall be undertaken / assessments made relying on the accuracy and completeness of such information.
You understand that the Ambulance and Ambulance Services may be under CCTV/ camera surveillance, otherwise recorded and the telephonic / video consultation recorded. We reserve the right to share these details with third party service providers & their team, including ambulance staff (including medical attendants, paramedics, medical professionals/ practitioners), hospitals, insurance companies, as required. You agree that the act of placing an order for Ambulance Services, availing the Ambulance Services and/ or  sharing such details signifies relevant consent to the collection, storage, retention, sharing, processing and usage of such information/ data in accordance with these Terms and the Privacy Policy, and the third party service provider’s terms/ privacy policy/ies.
You understand that Ambulance Services may involve medical intervention including consultation (video/ audio) with medical practitioners, initiating emergency procedures, medication, providing medicines, injections, etc. as required
(“Emergency Care Actions”
). You consent to administration of such Emergency Care Actions. You understand that during the course of the services or thereafter, the condition of the patient may deteriorate leading to permanent damage to health/ disability or even death, and for this, you shall not hold Blinkit Parties and the third party service provider(s) liable in any manner nor demand any compensation.
You understand that the decision of availing the services and choosing the preferred hospital is your  responsibility. However, in case the health of the patient deteriorates and/or the situation demands otherwise, you authorise Blinkit, the service providers and/ or the ambulance staff to take the patient to the nearest hospital location. To clarify, no liability/ consequence shall arise on Blinkit Parties/ service providers on account of exercising/ not exercising such authority.
Ambulance Services do not include treatment actions such as collection of blood or urine samples, and initiation of antibiotic prophylaxis, in case of open fractures. These shall be the responsibility of the treating hospital.
You shall be solely responsible for consequences of refusal of any recommended medical treatment, procedure, or intervention—either for yourself or on behalf of the patient, including associated medical risks, potential deterioration of health, complications, or fatality.
You shall be solely responsible for making the payments against all orders placed through your account.  To clarify, Blinkit shall not be responsible in any manner, whatsoever, for making any payments on your behalf including at the hospital/clinics etc. and/or payment of any bills or related expenses.
You shall avail the Ambulance Services and select the ambulance category and specifications required only for bona fide and lawful reasons, at your sole risk, using your best and prudent judgement. You shall not misuse the Ambulance Services. You are advised to contact the hospital and avail hospital services directly in critical / serious cases, where the patient’s medical condition is likely to deteriorate or is complicated. If you nevertheless choose to avail the Ambulance Services, it shall be at your sole risk and Blinkit Parties/ third party service provider(s) shall not be liable for any consequences thereof. Without prejudice to the aforesaid, services may be refused/ order request cancelled, if the patient’s condition seems critical and unsafe. You shall be solely responsible for assessing the medical condition.
You shall be solely responsible for your acts and omissions as well as of the patient and other attendants / representatives of the patient on board including following the safety instructions, protocols and guidelines provided during transit, ensuring safe custody of the personal belongings, etc. Blinkit Parties and the third party service provider(s) shall not be held liable for any such act, omission, loss, damage, or theft.
The timeline provided for pick-up/ drop are indicative only.  Blinkit, the third party service provider(s) does not make any representation, guarantee or warranty nor shall Blinkit be held liable in any manner, whatsoever in relation thereto including for delay in reaching the location/ pick-up/ drop time, deterioration of medical condition, disability or death of the patient. The estimated delivery time and services may be affected due to on-ground/ operational challenges and/ or for reasons beyond reasonable control such as unavailability of third party service providers, excess demand, traffic jams, poor weather conditions, patient’s existing medical condition, insufficient/ inaccurate  information & facts provided about the patient, accident, local laws and regulations, force majeure event, inaccurate location provided, customer(s) being unresponsive on call, additional details provided and/or change requested after order placement, vehicle availability, lift accessibility, road accessibility, vehicle breakdown, hospital formalities / acceptance time, or any other unforeseen event/circumstances causing delay in the medical transport by ambulances. Your order request may be cancelled for any such reasons beyond control and/ or unforeseen circumstances. You agree that you or the representatives of the patient shall not hold Blinkit Parties responsible and liable in any manner nor demand any compensation in this respect.
You agree to receive calls/messages/ notifications from our concerned teams, service providers and/or other professionals (including third parties) to assist you with the Ambulance Services.
You understand that the Ambulance Services shall be provided by third party service providers and medical professionals, liable to perform the services using their professional judgement. Blinkit disclaims all warranties and liabilities associated thereto and makes no representation, guarantee or warranty in this respect. Blinkit Parties shall not be responsible/ liable for their acts, omissions or deficiencies, including medical negligence, and you agree to not hold Blinkit Parties liable in this respect.
You may be charged a fee, an estimate of which shall be reflected at the time of availing the Ambulance Services and notified to you prior to placing an order for the Ambulance Services, which may consist of fixed and variable components (subject to further update depending upon the distance travelled by Ambulance/ drop location). You understand that in the course of the Ambulance Services, certain medicines and consumables may need to be administered for patient care. Charges thereof may apply additionally, based on usage and Tax Invoice cum Bill for the same may be issued on behalf of the third party providers. You shall not be entitled to, and agree to not, purchase such medicines and consumables other than as part of / independent of the Ambulance Services. By placing the order you agree to pay such fees and charges or such other fee which may be updated in case any change in request is received from You. You may have to make an advance full or partial payment for availing the services. If the payment remains incomplete, without prejudice to other rights and remedies as available to Blinkit, Blinkit may suspend/ terminate/ restrict your access to the Blinkit account/ services.
The Ambulance Services may be made available to you free of cost or at a discounted cost. If the services are made available free of cost, an invoice may not be issued against the relevant order.
Pharma & Healthcare Consultation Services
Blinkit provides a platform to, Third Party Sellers and third party service providers (“
Healthcare Consultants
”, such as independent third party medical/ healthcare practitioners listed directly on the Platform or via third party agencies/ service providers), to extend an “invitation to offer for sale” (not “offer for sale”) OTC medicines, prescription medicines (as permitted under law), consumables & other pharmaceutical products and related equipment (“
Pharma Products
”) and provide medical / health tele consultation services (“
Healthcare Consultation Services
”) to consumers.
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, you understand that listing and display of the Pharma Products, the Healthcare Consultation Services or related information on the Blinkit Platform does not amount to “exhibition” or an “offer for sale”, neither do the Healthcare Consultation Services create any “doctor-patient relationship” between you and Blinkit. The placement of an order/ request by you amounts to an “offer to purchase” the Pharma Product(s) from the Third Party Sellers or “offer to avail” the Healthcare Consultation Services from the Healthcare Consultants (as the case may be). The order confirmation is merely acknowledgement that the Third Party Sellers/ Healthcare Consultants have received your request and should not be construed as “acceptance of your offer”. Acceptance of your offer and subsequent delivery/ fulfilment is subject to the Terms.
Blinkit is not and cannot be a party to any transaction between you and the Third- Party Sellers/Healthcare Consultants. Transacting with them, purchasing the Pharma Products and/ or availing the Healthcare Consultation Services is your choice and independent decision, to be used only for bona fide, legitimate, genuine and lawful reasons, at your sole risk, using your best and prudent judgement and not to be misused. You agree and confirm that you are completely aware of the usage instructions, dosage, storage conditions, side effects, drug interactions, effects of missed doses or overdose of the Pharma Products. You specifically represent, warrant and undertake to purchase the Pharma Products and avail the Healthcare Consultation Services only as permitted under applicable law, including sharing a valid prescription for prescription Pharma Products, conforming to the number of times a prescription is permitted to be used and quantum of medicines prescribed, and not repeating the use of prescription for which drugs have already been dispensed.
You agree that the Healthcare Consultants are independent third parties performing their services based on their independent professional judgement. The findings, investigation, assessment, diagnosis, prognosis, opinions, advice, suggestion of the Healthcare Consultants through the Blinkit Platform are solely their independent assessment and opinions, none of these are endorsed by Blinkit. Prescriptions issued by the Healthcare Consultants may not be accepted by third party sellers or at any other pharmacy of your choice. You specifically represent, warrant and undertake to not misuse the prescriptions issued by the Healthcare Consultants.
Blinkit does not make any representation, guarantee or warranty, neither endorses, nor shall be held liable (directly or vicariously) in any manner, whatsoever in relation to sale-purchase/ effects of the Pharma Products and/ or the Healthcare Consultation Services (which shall be the sole responsibility of the Third Party Sellers/ Healthcare Consultants), including acts, omissions, breach of applicable law, medical negligence, professional conduct, assessment, advice, opinion of the Third Party Sellers/ Healthcare Consultants, unsatisfactory/ non- performance of the contract, effect, side effects, authenticity of the Pharma Products, accuracy of the catalogue, contents/ information (including contact details and qualifications) shared/ displayed, maintenance of applicable licenses and registrations in relation to the Pharma Products, storage and sale thereof/ Healthcare Consultation Services. Catalogue, data/ details, content/ information is shared as provided by the Third Party Sellers/ Healthcare Consultants, who are solely responsible to ensure that all such information is correct, complete and not misleading and is for information purposes only, not exhaustive. No such content/ information shall be construed as an advertisement/ marketing/ promotion/ solicitation or recommendation of any Pharma Product/ Healthcare Consultation Services.
To enable the Third Party Sellers dispense/ sell the Pharma Products and/ or the Healthcare Consultants provide the Healthcare Consultation Services, you undertake to share/ upload the requisite information/ documents including, a legally valid prescription issued by registered medical practitioner for prescription Pharma Products, name, age, address, gender, height, weight, medical/ health condition, pre-existing disease, medical history, ongoing medication, test reports and allergies, in true, accurate and complete form (not misleading/ forged/ fabricated). You understand that the services shall be provided/ assessments made relying on the accuracy and completeness of such information. If you place an order for any prescription Pharma Product but do not have a valid prescription prescribing such prescription Pharma Products, we will facilitate a call with a registered medical practitioner for you to avail the Healthcare Consultation Services. Placement of the order and / or consultation with the Healthcare Consultant does not guarantee issuance of a prescription by the Healthcare Consultant and/ or sale, dispensation and delivery of the prescription Pharma Products ordered, which shall be subject to the findings of the consultation and diagnosis of the Healthcare Consultant based on its professional judgement and your compliance with these Terms. For substitution of a prescription Pharma Product, you will need to provide written permission of a registered medical practitioner/ doctor in the medical prescription prescribing other equivalent Pharma Product.
Without prejudice to the other Terms, your order may be cancelled by Blinkit if: it is suspected as a fraudulent transaction, or it is suspected that you are in violation of these Terms, or if the Third Party Sellers/ pharmacists/ Healthcare Consultant finds any discrepancy in the prescription/ information shared by you or if the Healthcare Consultant in its professional judgement believes that technology-based consultation is not sufficient for your case or if the prescription/ diagnosis is not consistent with the order or in case of unavailability of product(s) or or for any reason, including technical errors, causes for delivery-related logistical difficulties. At the time of delivery of Pharma Products, you may be required to display the original prescription to the delivery partners, failing which your order may be cancelled. For such cancellations, Blinkit will initiate a refund, if any, against the relevant product/ order, within approximately 72 hours.
You may place an order for yourself or someone else, provided you qualify as an authorised “caregiver” of such other person and upfront disclose the same to the Healthcare Consultant. If you avail the services for someone else, you represent, warrant and covenant to disclose the same upfront, your relationship with such person, and confirm that you are an authorised caregiver to such person and have obtained such person’s consent to avail the services on such person’s behalf and provide such person’s details and other requisite information for the purposes as set out in these Terms. You shall provide the same in true, accurate and complete form (not misleading). You hereby indemnify and hold the Blinkit Parties, harmless against any losses, damages, claims or disputes by any third party, including such other person/ patient/ recipient/ its legal representatives arising in relation to unauthorised usage/ misuse of the services, unauthorised disclosure of information and/or disclosed information being untrue, inaccurate, misleading and/or incomplete.
You are aware and acknowledge that online/ virtual Healthcare Consultation Services are subject to risks associated with inter alia absence of physical examination, assessment of physical condition / symptoms, incomplete medical history or medical records that may be relevant for diagnosis and prescription and technology failures. You are therefore advised and encouraged to contact your nearest doctor/ hospital/ physical pharmacy/ avail physical consultation service directly (and in any event before consuming the prescribed medication), and you must do so specifically in critical, serious, special cases/ medical emergencies or if your condition does not improve. Services may be refused/ order request cancelled, if there is reason to believe that such circumstances exist. You shall be solely responsible for assessing the medical condition.
You understand that the telephonic / video consultation may be recorded. You agree that by accepting the invitation to offer for sale and make an offer, purchasing the Pharma Products, placing an order, sharing the requisite information, documents and/ or availing the Healthcare Consultation Services (by in-app chat, messaging, phone call, requesting a call, call-back, other means) you authorize Blinkit and its partners to collect, store, process, share, and use all submitted information, data, documents (including prescription), records and call recordings as deemed necessary in Blinkit's sole discretion. You consent to engage with the Third Party Sellers/ Healthcare Consultant to avail their services and the collection, storage, retention, sharing, processing and usage of such information/ data (including prescription)/ records and recordings in accordance with these Terms and the Privacy Policy, including sharing it with the Third Party Sellers, pharmacists/ Healthcare Consultants/ third party agencies/ service providers, their Healthcare Consultants/ pharmacists.
You expressly consent to the prescription being shared directly with the Third Party Sellers and pharmacists. You agree to receive calls/messages/ notifications from our concerned teams, Third Party Sellers/ Healthcare Consultants, service providers and/or other professionals to assist you with the purchase of Pharma Products and the Healthcare Consultation Services (including follow up consultation) or for other purposes we deem necessary to enable services for you. Blinkit may retain your information for as long as necessary for legitimate business purposes or as required by law. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, Blinkit shall not be responsible or liable for any claims, damages or disputes arising from data processing activities conducted in the ordinary course of business.
The Healthcare Consultation Services may be made available to you free of cost or at a discounted cost. If the services are made available free of cost, an invoice may not be issued against the relevant order.
Printing Services
For availing the printing services, customers have to upload a soft copy of the document, file, data, text, image, etc. in printable format (“
Print Document(s)
” on the Blinkit Platform or in case of Print Documents available for printing on the Blinkit Platform, trigger the printing request. Upon receiving your request, the Print Document(s) will be printed and delivered to you.
You agree not to upload any Print Documents that fall within the parameters of Prohibited Content.
While we endeavour to protect the confidentiality of Print Document(s) uploaded, You shall upload the Print Document(s) at your own risk. You are accordingly advised not to upload Print Document(s) which you may consider confidential.
We do not store any Print Document(s). Print Document(s) shared by the users are only temporarily maintained by us for the purpose of providing the printing services.
You may be charged a printing fee or charges which will be reflected at the time of availing the printing services. The applicable fee will be notified to you prior to placing an order for the printing services. By placing the order you agree to pay the fee and charges as reflected prior to placing the order. You may have to make payment in advance for availing printing services. We reserve the right to change such fees/charges at any time.
We reserve the right to share the Print Document(s) uploaded by the customer for availing printing services with our affiliated/ franchisee stores for printing and delivery purposes.
If the customer finds any defects in the printouts which customer have received, then the customer shall immediately send the pictures of the defective printout with the order number to the customer care. Any complaints received after 24 hours of the delivery of the printouts will not be entertained, however, we will endeavour to address such complaints.
The customer agrees that the customer will only use the printing services for lawful purposes only and comply with all applicable laws and regulations.
The customer agrees that the act of uploading the Print Document(s) indicates the customer’s consent to the collection, storage, retention and usage of such information for the purpose for which it has been uploaded in accordance with these Terms and the Privacy Policy.
The customer agrees that the printing services offered on the Blinkit Platform are being availed by the customer at their own risk. It is implied that they are using their best and prudent judgement before entering into any transaction through the Blinkit Platform.
Third Party Ancillary Services
In the interest of improving customer/ user experience or other reasons as deemed fit, Blinkit/ Third Party Sellers may collaborate with third parties (including brands, product manufacturers platform sellers, vendors, service providers), whereby you may have the option to avail certain services from such third parties/ their personnel/ representatives/ service providers  and/ or the relevant services may form part of the product/ services package itself. For instance, installation services, services offered/ provided to you pursuant to brand advertising/ marketing campaigns such as demo services, etc.
You understand  that the services are solely provided by such third parties, as per their terms and conditions and privacy policy. Additional charges may apply with respect to such services.  Blinkit’s Terms shall apply in addition to such third party’s terms and conditions and privacy policy. Therefore, you must review their terms of service, as may be available on their website/ platform, before deciding to avail their services/ purchasing the relevant products.
Blinkit has no control over the quality, fulfilment and completion of these services including customer care support, grievance, etc as these are fulfilled by third parties. Blinkit does not provide any guarantee or warranty and makes no representations whatsoever regarding these services, including reliability, quality, merchantability, fitness for any particular purpose or suitability thereof. Blinkit makes no covenants, on behalf of any third party. If you face any challenges in this respect, you are required to connect with the relevant brand/ manufacturer directly, in accordance with the relevant guarantee/ warranty policies.
By opting in for such services/ placing the order for the product that includes such services in the package (as the case may be), You explicitly give your consent to share your personal information as available with Blinkit along with order details with the third party service provider to provide the services. Your personal information will thereafter be subject to the privacy policy of such third party service provider as well in addition to Blinkit’s Privacy Policy, as amended from time to time.
The services may be affected due to on-ground/ operational challenges and/ or for reasons beyond reasonable control such as unavailability of third party service providers, excess demand, traffic jams, poor weather conditions, user’s building norms/ hassles with society providing entry to them, lift accessibility, insufficient/ inaccurate  information & facts provided by user, force majeure event, inaccurate location provided, customer(s) being unresponsive on call, additional details provided and/or change requested after order placement, or any other unforeseen event/circumstances.
You agree and acknowledge that soliciting or receiving the third party service provider’s services is solely at your own risk and Blinkit in no case shall be liable for any act or omission of such third party service provider (including its employees, personnel, agents, contractors, professionals, representatives).
You expressly agree that: (a) Blinkit Parties will not be liable or responsible for any loss or damage whatsoever that you may suffer, directly or indirectly, in connection with this including any theft, and (b) Blinkit will not mediate any disputes or differences between you and the third parties in relation to this.
Gifting Services
You may place an order for products to be delivered to someone else as a gift. You agree that the gifting services are available only for certain products as listed on the Blinkit Platform (“
Eligible Gift Product(s)
)”.
You agree and acknowledge that you shall use the gifting services available on the Blinkit Platform to gift and/or get the Eligible Gift Product(s) delivered to only such persons who are known to you and will not order/gift any Eligible Gift Product(s) and/or get the same delivered to any person which may put the recipient in uneasy, inconvenient or embarrassing situations. To place a gift order, you will be required to provide the gift recipient’s contact details, such as name, phone number, address or any other information that may be reasonably required to enable us deliver the gift order (“
Contact Information
”). These provisions shall apply
mutatis mutandis
to orders placed through your account to be delivered to someone else, otherwise than as a gift, whether placed on a cash on delivery basis or otherwise.
By availing the gifting service, you warrant and represent that you have obtained the gift recipient’s consent to provide us with the Contact Information. You hereby further warrant and represent to indemnify and hold the Blinkit Parties, harmless against any claims or disputes initiated by the gift recipient whose Contact Information was provided by you for the purpose of placing the gift order. You shall not use the gifting services to harass, intimidate or otherwise harm the recipient in any manner. By placing a gift order, you hereby irrevocably undertake to be responsible for any refusal made by the gift recipient or for any prejudice suffered by the latter or Blinkit. In case the gift recipient is, non-contactable, the delivery partner/ service provider or we may contact you for further assistance. These provisions shall apply
mutatis mutandis
to orders placed through your account to be delivered to someone else, otherwise than as a gift, whether placed on a cash on delivery basis or otherwise.
You may be charged gifting fees or charges which will be reflected at the time of availing the gifting services. The applicable fees/charges will be notified to you prior to placing an order for the gifting services. By placing the order, you agree to pay the fee and charges as reflected prior to placing the order. You may have to make payment in advance for availing gifting services and cash on delivery may not be permitted.
You may send a message with the gift order which we will endeavour to deliver, however sometimes, the message can’t be sent. Please refer to the terms on Prohibited Content in relation to the quality of such messages.
Blinkit Gift Cards
Blinkit co-branded gift cards (
“Co-branded Gift Card”
) are issued by Razorpay Technologies Private Limited (
“Razorpay”
), a private limited company incorporated under the laws of India, and is authorized by the Reserve Bank of India (“
RBI”
) under the Master Directions on Prepaid Payment Instruments issued by RBI
(“PPI Master Directions”)
in collaboration with Blinkit as the co-branding partner. For the sake of clarity, ‘
Blinkit Money
’ on the Blinkit Platform is powered by and includes the Co-branded
Gift Cards purchased.
The Co-branded Gift Card is redeemable only on the Blinkit Platform. The Co-branded Gift Card can be purchased on the Blinkit Platform using the following payment modes only: credit card, debit card, UPI and internet banking.
The Co-branded Gift Card issued by Razorpay shall be governed by the applicable terms as specified
here
.
The purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card may add the Co-branded Gift Card to the Blinkit Platform’s money balance via “Claim” option.
The Co-branded Gift Card shall be valid for a period of one (1) year from the date of purchase and cannot be used to purchase other gift cards.
Multiple Co-branded Gift Cards can be clubbed in a single order of purchase.
The Co-branded Gift Card cannot be redeemed for cash or credit and cannot be reloaded.
In cases where the order is canceled, the Co-branded Gift Card amount shall be refunded to the customer(s) in the form of balance under the “Blinkit Money” section on the Blinkit Platform.
All taxes, duties, levies or other statutory dues and charges payable in connection with the benefits accruing under the offer shall be borne solely by the purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card.
The purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card is solely responsible for the safety and security of the Co-branded Gift Card. Blinkit Platform and Razorpay are not responsible for any acts of omission or commission if the Co-branded Gift Card is lost, stolen, or used without permission. Once the Co-branded Gift Card is claimed, no refund can be issued against such Co-branded Gift Card.
Razorpay reserves the right to cancel the Co-branded Gift Card if the same has been found to be purchased with fraudulent means and / or the beneficiary / know-your-customer (
“KYC”
) details are found to be incorrect or insufficient as per RBI guidelines. In such cases, the funds shall be credited back to the same source account from where these were received.
The purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card agrees and understands that the Co-branded Gift Cards are a pre-paid payment instrument subject to regulation by RBI under the
PPI Master Directions
. Under the RBI guidelines, the Blinkit Platform and / or Razorpay may be required to share KYC details of the purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card and /or any other information in relation to purchase of the Co-branded Gift Card and / or transaction undertaken using the Co-branded Gift Card with RBI or such statutory authorities. Blinkit Platform and / or Razorpay may contact the purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card for any such information.
Blinkit Platform shall honour and consider requests for blocking of the Co-branded Gift Cards upon receipt of (i) such request from the registered users of the Blinkit Platform; (ii) any court or judicial order passed by the relevant authorities; and/or (iii) any notices issued by the cyber cells.
For any customer(s) grievance, please refer to Razorpay’s
policy
.
The purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card may request for the revalidation of the expired Co-branded Gift Card within one (1) year from the expiry of the Co-branded Gift Card. Upon receipt of such a request the Co-branded Gift Card may be revalidated after due verification by the Blinkit Platform and Razorpay as per PPI Master Directions.
These terms are governed by the laws in India, all disputes arising out of or in connection to this scheme are subject to exclusive jurisdiction of the courts in Bangalore only.
In the event of any conflict between the terms regarding Co-branded Gift Card covered under these terms and any other terms made available to the purchaser of the Co-branded Gift Card via the Blinkit Platform, these terms shall prevail.
#1 instant delivery service in India
Shop on the go and get anything delivered at your doorstep. Buy everything from groceries to fresh fruits & vegetables, cakes and bakery items, to meats & seafood, cosmetics, mobiles & accessories, electronics, baby care products and much more. We get it delivered at your doorstep in the fastest and the safest way possible.
single app for all your daily needs
Order thousands of products at just a tap - milk, eggs, bread, cooking oil, ghee, atta, rice, fresh fruits & vegetables, spices, chocolates, chips, biscuits, noodles, cold drinks, shampoos, soaps, body wash, pet food, diapers, electronics, other organic and gourmet products from your neighbourhood stores and a lot more.
order online on Blinkit to enjoy instant delivery magic
Cities we currently serve: Agra, Ahmedabad, Ajmer, Akola, Aligarh, Alwar, Amravati, Amritsar, Anand, Ankleshwar, Asansol, Aurangabad (now Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar), Ayodhya, Bahadurgarh, Ballari, Bardhaman, Bareilly, Bathinda, Begusarai, Belagavi, Bengaluru (formerly Bangalore), Bhopal, Bhagalpur, Bharuch, Bhavnagar, Bhimavaram, Bhiwadi, Bhubaneswar, Bhuj, Bidar, Bikaner, Bokaro, Chandigarh, Chandrapur, Chennai, Chhatrapati Sambhajinagar (formerly Aurangabad), Coimbatore, Cuttack, Darbhanga, Davanagere, Dehradun, Dewas, Deoria, Delhi, Dhanbad, Dharamshala, Dharwad, Durg, Durgapur, Erode, Faridabad, Firozabad, Firozpur, Gandhidham, Gaya, Ghaziabad, Goa, Gonda, Gorakhpur, Greater Noida, Guntur, Guwahati, Gwalior, Haldwani, Hamirpur, Haridwar, Hassan, Hisar, Hoshiarpur, Hosur, Hubballi, Hyderabad, Indore, Jabalpur, Jaipur, Jalandhar, Jammu, Jamshedpur, Jaunpur, Jind, Jodhpur, Kaithal, Kakinada, Kalaburagi (formerly Gulbarga), Kanpur, Kapurthala, Karnal, Kharagpur, Kharar, Khanna, Kochi, Kolhapur, Kolkata (formerly Calcutta), Kota, Kotdwar, Kottayam, Kozhikode, Kurnool, Kurukshetra, Lakhimpur, Latur, Lucknow, Ludhiana, Madurai, Mangaluru, Manali, Manipal, Mathura, Meerut, Mehsana, Mohali, Moga, Modinagar, Moradabad, Mumbai (formerly Bombay), Muzaffarnagar, Muzaffarpur, Mysuru, Nadiad, Nagpur, Narmadapuram, Nashik, Navsari, Nellore, Noida, Panipat, Panchkula, Patiala, Patna, Pathankot, Phagwara, Prayagraj, Puducherry, Pune, Puri, Purnia, Raebareli, Raipur, Rajahmundry, Rajkot, Rajpura, Rampur, Ranchi, Rewari, Rishikesh, Rohtak, Roorkee, Rudrapur, Saharanpur, Salem, Sangrur, Satna, Satara, Shillong, Shivamogga, Sikar, Siliguri, Sirsa, Sitapur, Solan, Solapur, Sonipat, Sri Ganganagar, Surat, Thiruvananthapuram (formerly Trivandrum), Tiruchirappalli, Tirupati, Tumakuru, Udaipur, Udupi, Una, Unnao, Ujjain, Vadodara, Vapi, Varanasi, Vellore, Vijayapura (formerly Bijapur), Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Vrindavan, Warangal, Yamunanagar.
Blink Commerce Private Limited
Ground Floor, Pioneer Square,  Sector 62, Golf Course Extension Road,
Gurugram, Haryana -122098
CIN:U74140HR2015PTC055568
011-4059237
3
[email protected]
Company
About
Careers
Blog
Press
Lead
Values
For Consumers
Privacy
Terms
FAQs
Security
Mobile
Contact
For Partners
Franchise
Seller
Warehouse
Deliver
Partner
Follow us
https://www.instagram.com/letsblinkit
https://www.facebook.com/blinkit.india
https://twitter.com/letsblinkit
https://www.linkedin.com/company/letsblinkit
Download App
By continuing past this page you agree to our Terms, Cookie policy and Privacy policy. All trademarks are properties of their respective owners. © Blink Commerce Private Limited 2016-2025