What ONDC aims to achieve? Learn About ONDC
Do you want to change your default language?
English
Assamese
Bengali
Gujarati
Hindi
Kannada
Malayalam
Marathi
Oriya
Punjabi
Tamil
Telugu
Continue
Cancel
ONDC Participant Portal
Begin and efficiently manage your journey on ONDC Network
Understand and select your role(s)
Track, manage and troubleshoot your integration
Discover and collaborate with others
Stay informed on network developments and announcements
Sign up
Learn About ONDC
Unbundling the
e-commerce industry!
Discover the true potential of Open Protocol for an efficient & inclusive e-commerce landscape.
India’s e-commerce landscape
Despite the high internet speeds and widespread smartphone usage, the majority of participants
in the e-commerce are unable to reap the benefits of this digital revolution.
61.4 L.Cr
2022
154.4 L.Cr
2025
India Market Potential
Source
Korea
26%
China
25%
UK
23%
India
4.3%
E-Retail Penetration
850
(2.55%)
2018
903
(3%)
2019
883
(4.3%)
2020
Total Retail GMV
Online Retail GMV
India has the third-largest online shopper base globally, with 14 crore e-retail shoppers in 2020, only behind China and the US.
E-retail penetration is only 4.3% in India; well below China (25%), South Korea (26%), and the UK (23%).
Observation
The COVID-19 pandemic exposed the critical shortcomings of the Indian digital commerce ecosystem when most parts of the retail chain were found to be digitally absent.
Platform-centric challenges
The current platform-centric nature of e-commerce presents numerous obstacles in making e-commerce accessible at the population scale.
A single entity has full control in managing all operations in the e-commerce value chain.
Sellers face challenges including high margin costs and the need to maintain a presence on multiple platforms.
Buyers and sellers can only transact if they are part of the same platform.
The rise of monopolies creates barriers to entry for the population-scale adoption of e-commerce. A single entity has full control over managing all operations in the e-commerce value chain.
Observation
The identified gaps are not limited to buyers and sellers alone but rather exist across all entities involved in the e-commerce value chain.
How will ONDC change this?
ONDC introduces an open-network for all the players who can sell or enable selling in an e-commerce setup (i.e), a shopping platform, seller, logistics partners and technology service providers. No single entity controls the end-to-end activities in buyers’ purchase journeys.
Here is a sneak peek into how ONDC works:
1.) In a snapshot:
All buyers and sellers are connected through ONDC
Buyers
Sellers
How will ONDC change this?
ONDC introduces an open network for all the players who can sell or enable selling in an e-commerce setup (i.e), a shopping platform, seller, logistics partners, and technology service providers. No single entity controls the end-to-end activities in buyers’ purchase journeys.
Here is a sneak peek into how ONDC works:
2.) Mechanism:
A transaction can be fulfilled by multiple entities operating independently on the network.
ONDC’s impact
Ensure that all businesses, regardless of their size, location, or digital proficiency, can easily participate in digital commerce.
Enable local retail ecosystems to access and fulfill online demand.
Enhance business efficiencies in India by reducing various cost overheads such as acquisition costs, digital presence costs, and inventory costs across all businesses.
Formalise businesses by creating active digital history and enable easier access to finance options.
Economic development and livelihood creation opportunities across the digital commerce value chain including, logistics, packaging, last-mile delivery, and other areas.
Enable easy participation in digital commerce coverage to all businesses irrespective of size, location, digital quotient, and other areas.
Expand the digital commerce landscape in India by amplifying geographic and socio-economic coverage.
Enable increased trade of locally manufactured goods in India, thereby multiplying investment and production of MSMEs.
What ONDC aims to achieve?
In the next 5 years, there is a potential opportunity for market transformation due to ONDC.
₹
3.75
L.Cr
Additional gross merchandising value
₹
7.30
Cr
Additional annual purchases enabled by the network
₹
90
Cr
Buyers on the network
12
L
Sellers on the network
Enhanced
Pincode coverage
India’s eCommerce landscape
Despite the high internet speeds and widespread smartphone usage, the majority of participants
in the e-commerce are unable to reap the benefits of this digital revolution.
$74.8 Bn
2022
$188 Bn
2025
Market potential
336.2Mn
2022
377.6Mn
2025
Buyer Base
Observation
The gap between online buyers and online sellers remains big. And,
performance of large players is the benchmark for the entire
eCommerce industry.
ONDC Participant Portal
Begin and efficiently manage your journey on ONDC Network
Understand and select your role(s)
Track, manage and troubleshoot your integration
Discover and collaborate with others
Stay informed on network developments and announcements
Sign up
Type to search
No results for your search, please try with something else.
Sign up - ONDC Participant Portal
Download Now
for Android™
Public Advisory
Advisory on Misrepresentation of ONDC. Click here to read.
ONDC Participant Portal
Begin and efficiently manage your journey on ONDC Network
Understand and select your role(s)
Track, manage and troubleshoot your integration
Discover and collaborate with others
Stay informed on network developments and announcements
Sign up