Tuberculosis (TB) | Tuberculosis (TB) | CDC
Skip directly to site content
Skip directly to search
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
) or
https://
means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Tuberculosis (TB)
About
Tuberculosis is a disease caused by germs that are spread from person to person through the air.
Learn More
Oct. 30, 2024
Signs and Symptoms
Common symptoms of active tuberculosis disease include cough, chest pain, and coughing up blood.
Testing for Tuberculosis
The tuberculosis (TB) blood test and the TB skin test are the two types of tests for TB infection.
Treatment
Both inactive tuberculosis (TB) and active TB disease can be treated.
For Professionals
TB Prevention in Healthcare Settings
U.S. health care settings should have a TB infection control plan.
Mar. 30, 2024
Health Care Providers
TB for Health Care Providers
Health care providers can access TB testing, treatment, and educational information.
TB Programs
U.S. state and local health departments are responsible for preventing and controlling tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation
TB Centers of Excellence for Training, Education, and Medical Consultation support TB activities.
Guidelines
This page provides a list of selected clinical guidelines related to tuberculosis (TB) topics.
Health Care Provider Communication and Education Resources
CDC has a range of tuberculosis (TB) education resources for health care providers.
Mantoux Tuberculin Skin Test Toolkit
Health care providers can use this toolkit to learn how to read and administer the TB skin test.
Latent TB Infection Resource Hub
This resource hub is a one-stop-shop for latent TB infection materials.
Public Health Professionals
Information for Tuberculosis Programs
CDC has resources, information, and guidance to support U.S. tuberculosis programs.
Tuberculosis Data
CDC publishes data on a variety of tuberculosis (TB) topics to track progress towards elimination.
TB Program Evaluation
Public health programs can use program evaluation to improve TB prevention and control activities.
Tuberculosis Genotyping
Tuberculosis (TB) genotyping analyzes the DNA of TB bacteria to help distinguish different strains.
Laboratory Information
Learn about the services and resources available from CDC's Tuberculosis Laboratory.
Tuberculosis Research
CDC's research contributes to new diagnostics, treatments, and approaches to eliminate tuberculosis.
Featured Resources
General Public Communication and Education Resources
CDC has a range of tuberculosis (TB) communication resources for the public.
Apr. 10, 2024
Tuberculosis Personal Stories
Highlights the experiences of people diagnosed and treated for inactive TB and active TB disease.
Dec. 2, 2024
Think. Test. Treat TB
Think. Test. Treat TB aims to increase awareness and understanding about inactive tuberculosis.
Aug. 29, 2024
Tuberculosis (TB)
Tuberculosis is caused by bacteria called
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
.  The bacteria usually attack the lungs but can attack any part of the body.
View All
For Everyone
About
Signs and Symptoms
Causes and Spread
Vaccine
Testing for Tuberculosis
Exposure
Risk Factors
Prevention
View all
Health Care Providers
Clinical Overview
Guidelines
Clinical Signs and Symptoms
View All
Public Health
Tuberculosis Case Reporting
Guidance for Public Health Professionals
Laboratory Information
View All
Sign up for Email Updates