Diabetes | CDC
Skip directly to site content
Skip directly to search
An official website of the United States government
Here's how you know
Official websites use .gov
A
.gov
website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
A
lock
(
) or
https://
means you've safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
Diabetes
3 Steps to Building a Healthy Habit
Learn how you can succeed at your health goals.
Learn More
May 15, 2024
Find a DSMES Program
Learn the practical skills and tools you need to make positive lifestyle changes to manage diabetes.
Mar 17, 2025
Prediabetes – Your Chance to Prevent Type 2
If you have prediabetes or think you might, find out how you can prevent or delay type 2 diabetes.
Dec 26, 2024
Your Immune System and Diabetes
Diabetes can impact your immune system. Learn how you can stay healthy this cold and flu season.
Dec 19, 2023
For professionals
Prevent Type 2 Diabetes: Talking to Your Patients About Lifestyle Change
Facts about preventing type 2 diabetes and talking to your patients about lifestyle change program.
May 15, 2024
DSMES for Health Care Providers
DSMES improves health outcomes, including A1C for your patients with diabetes.
May 15, 2024
Promoting Ear Health
Provides guidance for health care providers on promoting ear health for patients with diabetes
Promoting Eye Health
Provides guidance for health care providers on promoting eye health for patients with diabetes.
Promoting Foot Health
Provides guidance for health care providers on promoting foot health for patients with diabetes.
Promoting Medication Management
Provides guidance to health care providers on promoting medication management for diabetes patients.
Promoting Oral Health
Provides guidance for health care providers on promoting oral health for patients with diabetes.
Featured
Living with Diabetes
Use these tips to help you live well with diabetes.
Jan 1, 2026
Diabetes Complications
Learn how to prevent or delay diabetes health problems through self-care and regular checkups.
May 14, 2024
Healthy Eating
Learn about diabetes meal planning, carb counting, food labels, grocery shopping, and more.
Healthy Weight
​These tips can help you reach and maintain a healthy weight that improves your overall well-being.
Preventing
Prediabetes is your wakeup call to prevent type 2 diabetes. Find out if you're at risk.
5 Questions to Ask Your Health Care Team
Ask your doctors these important questions to make sure your diabetes care stays on track.
Treatment
Find info about how and when to test blood sugar, managing high and low blood sugar, and more.
Infographics and more
Diabetes
Diabetes is a chronic disease that affects how your body turns food into energy. About 1 in 8 Americans has diabetes.
View All
For Everyone
Basics
Symptoms
Testing
Risk Factors
Preventing
Treatment
Providing Care
Living with Diabetes
View all
Health Care Providers
Clinical Guidance
DSMES for Health Care Providers
Mini-Toolkit: Helping Families Prevent Type 2
View All
Public Health
Community-based Organizations (CBOs)
Toolkits for Diabetes Educators and Community Health Workers
National Diabetes Statistics Report
View All
Sign up for Email Updates