National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK)
75 years: 1950-2025
Advancing Research & Health for All
Learn about NIDDK
Health Topics
/
Temas de salud
English
Español
Diabetes
Digestive Diseases
Kidney Disease
Weight Management
Liver Disease
Urologic Diseases
Endocrine Diseases
Diet & Nutrition
Diagnostic Tests
Diabetes
Enfermedades digestivas
Enfermedad de los riñones
Control de peso
Enfermedades del hígado
Enfermedades urológicas
Enfermedades endocrinas
Alimentación y nutrición
Pruebas diagnósticas
The NIDDK Director
Griffin P. Rodgers, M.D., M.A.C.P.
Meet the Director
Mission & Vision
NIDDK Director's Update
NIDDK Annual Report 2025
Featured Highlights
Heterogeneity of Diabetes
Review recommendations from the NIDDK’s Working Group of Council on Heterogeneity of Diabetes.
Diabetes in America
An updated article on liver and gallbladder disease in persons with diabetes is available now.
Urologic Diseases in America
The updated Urologic Diseases in America is available now.
Omega-3 Fatty Acids and Cardiovascular Disease in Hemodialysis
Aug. 3 - 4, 2026
Pathway to Kidney Recovery: Optimizing Outcomes in Acute Kidney Injury Requiring Dialysis
Sept. 14 - 15, 2026
Diabetes Mellitus Interagency Collaborating Committee (DMICC) Type 1 Diabetes and Cardiorenal Outcomes: Informing a Practice Changing Trial
Sept. 18, 2026
Accelerating the Translation of Cell Therapy for Type 1 Diabetes
Sept. 22 - 23, 2026
Data Management & Sharing (DMS) Guidance, Tools and Resources
NIDDK researchers can refer to NIDDK guidance for writing a DMS plan.
NIDDK Labs Offer Research Training Opportunities
Join our vibrant community at one of the most prestigious research institutions in the world.
In the News
Dec. 30, 2024
Behavioral intervention decreases how much pain affects daily activities in people with dialysis-dependent kidney failure
Oct. 30, 2024
NIH study demonstrates long-term benefits of weight-loss surgery in young people
Oct. 28, 2024
Genomic variants that increase risk of kidney disease are found in nearly one-third of West Africans
Oct. 10, 2024
First wave of COVID-19 increased risk of heart attack, stroke up to three years later
More News
Research & Funding
Internships at NIDDK
Work side-by-side with leading NIH scientists.
Applying for Funding
Where to register and what to do before you apply for a funding opportunity
Research Training & Career Development
NIDDK offers and participates in a variety of opportunities for researchers.
More Research & Funding
Is Participating in Clinical Trials Right for You?
Clinical trials offer hope for many people and an opportunity to help
researchers find better treatments for others in the future.
Learn more
about clinical trials
Health Information
Diabetes and Continuous Glucose Monitoring
Talk to your doctor about continuous glucose monitoring to help manage your diabetes.
Managing Chronic Kidney Disease
Learn about the causes and complications of chronic kidney disease.
Understanding Hepatitis D
Discover the causes, symptoms, and treatment plan for Hepatitis D.
More Health Information