Advancing Heart, Lung, Blood, and Sleep Research & Innovation | NHLBI, NIH
Skip to main content
Leading the prevention and treatment of heart, lung, blood, and sleep disorders
Explore NHLBI research
Health Topics
Health Education Resources
Participate in a Study
Calculate Your BMI
What's Happening at the NHLBI
News
To the rescue: Drones could deliver defibrillators for out-of-hospital cardiac arrests
Education
Learn tips to manage your pain with sickle cell disease
Education
Watch this video to learn about blood donation and how it can save lives
Health Topics
Featured health topic
Sickle Cell Disease
Sickle cell disease causes the red blood cells to have a sickle or crescent shape instead of a disc shape. The sickle-shaped cells can block blood vessels and lead to serious health problems.
View Sickle Cell Disease Health Topic
View Sickle Cell Disease
Anemia
Cardiac Arrest
Heart Attack
Arrhythmias
Defibrillators
Narcolepsy
View All Topics
Featured Areas of Research
Discover research programs and initiatives that seek to inform prevention, diagnosis, and treatment for today’s major health challenges and conditions.
Heart Failure
NHLBI-supported research has contributed to heart failure treatments using breakthrough therapies.
Heart Failure Research at NHLBI
Data Science
BioData Catalyst is a cloud-based ecosystem where researchers can analyze data related to NHLBI focus areas, like Long COVID, sickle cell disease, asthma, and heart disease.
BioData Catalyst Research
Asthma
The goal of NHLBI-supported asthma research has been to discover better prevention and treatment options.
Asthma Research at NHLBI
NHLBI Events
Jun
18
NHLBI Obesity, Nutrition, and Physical Activity (ONPA) Seminar Series: GLP-1 Receptor Agonists and Pregnancy
Thu, Jun 18
Jun
25
Research That Heals: Partnering with Patients to Transform SCD Care
Thu, Jun 25
View More Events
NHLBI PUBLICATIONS
The NHLBI has materials for patients and health professionals on many health topics, such as asthma, heart disease, and sickle cell disease.
Search for NHLBI publications
Our Mission
The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) provides global leadership for a research, training, and education program to promote the prevention and treatment of heart, lung, and blood disorders and enhance the health of all individuals so that they can live longer and more fulfilling lives.
Learn More About the NHLBI
Mission and Strategic Vision
Divisions, Offices, and Centers
View NHLBI Leadership
On This Page
David C. Goff, M.D., Ph.D.
NHLBI Acting Director
Meet the NHLBI Acting Director