About Us | National Consumer Helpline
A -
|
A
|
A +
|
Screen Reader
|
Skip to main content
|
Official login
|
Consumer login
Government of India
Department of Consumer Affairs
National Consumer Helpline (NCH) 2.0
About Us
Convergence Partners
What is Convergence Program ?
Convergence Partner Registration
Convergence Partners List
Knowledge Base
What's New
Important Links
Department of Consumer Affairs (Official Website)
National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC)
State Consumer Commission
District Consumer Commission
e-Jagriti
Bureau of Indian Standards (BIS)
National Test House (NTH)
Cyber Crime
Contact
WhatsApp
+918800001915
Toll Free
1915
(8AM to 8PM)
National Consumer Helpline Banner
National Consumer Helpline Contact Options
☎
Call Centre
1915
💬
SMS
8800001915
🌐
Web Portal
📱
NCH App
(opens in new tab)
📲
UMANG App
(opens in new tab)
Home
About us
About this portal (National Consumer Helpline)
1. What is NCH-National Consumer Helpline (consumerhelpline.gov.in) ?
This website has been launched by the Department of Consumer Affairs to create awareness,advise and redress consumer grievances and act as a central registry for lodging consumer grievances.
The Department of Consumer Affairs has launched this portal as an integrated Grievance Redress Mechanism (INGRAM) for bringing all Stakeholders such as Consumers, Central and State Government Agencies, Private Companies, Regulators, Ombudsmen and call centres etc. onto a single platform. The portal will also help in creating awareness among consumers to protect their rights and inform them of their responsibilities. Consumers can register online their grievances through this portal.
This portal is an alternate dispute redressal mechanism at pre-litigation level. In case, the consumer is not satisfied, he/she can approach the appropriate Consumer Commission.
Contents of links to sites outside this web portal, are not the responsibility of the Department. All rights are reserved. No part of this web portal, can be reproduced / copied without the prior approval of the Department of Consumer Affairs.
2.What kind of grievances can be registered?
Ans. Grievances related to Consumer Issues can be registered.
3. How one registers his / her Grievance?
Any aggrieved consumer can register his / her grievance by either calling the toll free number
1800-11-4000
or
1915
and talk to an agent or register himself once in the portal, get an userid and password and lodge his grievance himself attaching necessary documents, if any.
Step 1.
A one time registration is required for lodging a Grievance. For registration go to the web portal http://consumerhelpline.gov.in and click on the login link and then singup giving details required, verify through your email. The User id and password are created.
Step2.
Using this user id and password, enter into the portal and fill in require details of Grievance attaching necessary documents (if available).
OR
SMS on this Number
8800001915
. We will get back to you.
OR
Register your grievance through  Whatsapp
Chat now→
OR
Register your grievance through  NCH APP
Download App→
OR
Register your grievance through  UMANG APP
View Details→
4. What are the other features available in this portal?
This portal has many consumer awareness material under links Consumer Rights, Consumer Commission, Consumer Protection Act. Links to various other useful sites are also available under Important Links
5. What happens to the grievance?
Any grievance received either through online registration or call center is entered in the portal and a unique docket number is generated and given.
Grievances received are sent to the concerned company / agency / regulator / ombudsman, as the case maybe, for speedy redress. Action taken is updated on real time basis by the concerned agency.
As a follow up action, these agencies are reminded at stipulated interval.
6.How do I track the status of my Grievance?
The status of the Grievance can be tracked from the portal under the link a Track your Grievance without loging into the portal.
7. What Action do I expect on my grievance ?
Every grievance will be registered and a Unique Docket number is issued. The Grievance will be forwarded to the concerned company/ regulator / authority for action. Action taken by them is updated against each grievance.
8. Does registering a grievance in the portal guarantee remedy?
NCH is a Pre-Litigation stage step.
All efforts will be made to get the grievance redressed by taking up with the authorities concerned. However, if the grievance could not be redressed to the full satisfaction, a consumer has choice to approach the appropriate consumer Commission.
NCDRC website
State Commission
District Commission
9. What is the time limit for the redress process?
Each and every grievance received through the portal will be taken up with the concerned company / agency etc. for speedy disposal. It may take up to a maximum of 30 days to arrive at a logical conclusion.
10. Who will be contact person in the Department of Consumer Affairs?
Director (PG) Department Of Consumer Affairs
Krishi Bhawan. New Delhi - 110001
Email :
dirpg-ca[at]nic[dot]in
Helpful Consumer Resources
Consumer Rights Information
About the Consumer Protection Act 2019
Other Ministries / Departments
Grievances Portal
Cyber Crime FAQs
For Grievances Related to Cyber
Financial Fraud Only
Call helpline: 1930
NCH Annual Reports
NCH Annual Report
2020-21
– PDF Download
(opens in new tab)
NCH Annual Report
2019-20
– PDF Download
(opens in new tab)
NCH Annual Report
2018-19
– PDF Download
(opens in new tab)
NCH Annual Report
2017-18
– PDF Download
(opens in new tab)
NCH Annual Report
2016-17
– PDF Download
(opens in new tab)
NCH Annual Report
2015-16
– PDF Download
(opens in new tab)
NCH Annual Report
2014-15
– PDF Download
(opens in new tab)
Logins
Consumer Login
Company Login
Regulators Login
Other
Track Grievance
Upload Docs
Leave a Feedback
Important Links
Convergence Partner
To Register as a convergence Partner with NCH.
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
© 2016–2026 Copyright Department of Consumer Affairs