myScheme
Something went wrong. Please try again later.
Ok
Are you sure you want to sign out?
Cancel
Sign Out
#GOVERNMENTSCHEMES
/
#SCHEMESFORYOU
Find Schemes For You
Categories
States/UTs
Central
Ministries
Find schemes based
on categories
How it works
Easy steps to apply
for Government Schemes
Enter Details
Start by entering your
basic details!
Search
Our search engine will
find the relevant schemes
!
Select & Apply
Select and apply
for the best suited scheme
About
myScheme is a National Platform that aims to offer one-stop search and discovery of the Government schemes.
It provides an innovative, technology-based solution to  discover scheme information based upon the eligibility of the citizen.
The platform helps the citizen to find the right Government schemes for them. It also guides on how to apply for different Government schemes. Thus no need to visit multiple Government websites.
View More
Frequently Asked Questions
Checkout our knowledge base for some of your answers!
What is myScheme, and how is it different from other government portals?
myScheme is a national platform for accessing a wide range of government schemes from both the Central & State/UT Governments. It is a one-stop platform for search & discovery of government schemes based on demographic details. Unlike traditional government portals, myScheme brings together schemes from the Central Government, State Governments, and Union Territories on a single platform and helps users find relevant schemes based on their eligibility.
How will myScheme help common citizens?
The myScheme platform simplifies access to government schemes by enabling citizens to discover relevant schemes in one place, eliminating the need to visit multiple departmental websites or review extensive scheme guidelines to check their eligibility.
How does myScheme work?
The myScheme platform follows a simple and user-friendly three-step process to help citizens discover government schemes for which they are eligible: Step 1: The user enters basic details such as demographic, income, social category, etc. Step 2: Based on the information provided, myScheme displays relevant schemes from hundreds of government schemes for the user. Step 3: The user can select from the list of eligible schemes and get more information from the dedicated scheme page with detailed knowledge, FAQs, and application process and navigate to the respective application URL to apply.
What is the procedure for knowing the right scheme on the myScheme platform?
To find the right scheme on the myScheme platform, citizens can begin by visiting the platform's official website. Once on the homepage, they will find the 'Find Schemes for You' feature, which allows users to enter their demographic details, such as age, gender, income level, category, etc. Once these details are submitted, the platform will provide a list of relevant schemes based on the user's profile.
What information about a particular scheme can I find on myScheme?
The myScheme platform provides comprehensive information on each scheme, including eligibility criteria, benefits offered, application procedure, and the documents required to avail the scheme. It also features a dedicated Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) section to address common queries related to the scheme.
View More
©
2026
Powered by
Digital India Corporation(DIC)
Ministry of Electronics & IT (MeitY)
Government of India
®
Connect on Social Media
Quick Links
About Us
Contact Us
Screen Reader
Accessibility Statement
Frequently Asked Questions
Disclaimer
Terms & Conditions
Dashboard
Useful Links
Get in touch
4th Floor, NeGD, Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, Lodhi Road, New Delhi - 110003, India
support-myscheme[at]digitalindia[dot]gov[dot]in
(011) 24303714 (9:00 AM to 5:30 PM)